5/24/2014

"The Luria Resident is generously funded by The Luria Foundation. This is an opportunity for a recent library school graduate to explore community college librarianship by working in all areas of an award-winning community college library. The position is a temporary part-time and will be completed between August 20, 2014 - May 15, 2015 with the possibility for an extension into one additional academic year.The Library Resident will work approximately 25-hours per week during the fall and spring semesters. Specific schedule will be mutually agreed upon with the Library Director. The position is formally an adjunct librarian and will be paid on that salary schedule (approximately $40/hr)."

"    Possession of a Master's Degree from an accredited institution in Library Science, Library and Information Science that was awarded in the last two years.    A career interest in community college librarianship.    Excellent interpersonal and written and verbal communication skills.; adaptable to a rapidly changing environment, and ability to collaborate with various departmental service units.    Energetic, innovative, and flexible."

"Cataloging,Collection Development,Digital Collections,Metadata,Reference Services,Taxonomy,Web Services"

"The Library Resident will rotate through different operations of the library. The list below is an example of the types of process and tasks the Library Resident might expect to participate in during a semester. The Library Resident is also encouraged to make suggestions and bring their own innovative ideas.Technical services    Catalog archive collection    Enhance bibliographic records in integrated library systemCollection Development    Recommend purchases using acquisition plan and reviewing sources    Participate in collection review for deaccessioningOutreach/Access    Participate in SBCC activities to promote library program    Create library blog and social media updates    Explore and implement eBook and database promotion    Create book and other displays    Create user survey or usability studiesDonations and Friends of the Library Book Sale    Review donations and identify possible additions to library collection    Support the online book sale using Alibris and/or Amazon    Fundraising    Attempt to sell books online from donation shelves    Look for appropriate grant application sourcesInstruction    Collaborate with librarians to develop and deliver research instruction in discipline specific classes    Create online research guides, video tutorials, and other learning objects for specific disciplines, courses, and assignments    Support and provide reference services"
