6/26/2014

"Wilson Library is seeking applications for a full-time, Assistant Professor/Research and Instruction Librarian position. This is a 12 month, non-tenure track faculty position. Library faculty at Wilson Library are expected to cultivate partnerships and actively establish networks and relationships with faculty, staff and students as well as partner with faculty to develop library collections and integrate the library into the curricula. Library faculty at Wilson Library support research and instruction across disciplines as needed. Additionally, library faculty are expected to maintain a current knowledge of the literature and trends in the field as they relate to research, instruction and resource services.Candidate must possess the ability to work in a team environment; have familiarity with relevant databases, collections and publishers/vendors; have a demonstrated ability to use technology for research and instruction; ability to work effectively with diverse academic groups; have an understanding of teaching and learning, scholarly communication and publishing the sciences; ability to respond effectively to changing needs and priorities; ability to work both independently and in cooperation with colleagues and library users in a diverse, service-oriented, collaborative environment. Additionally, the ideal candidate will have strong interpersonal, communication, organizational and time management skills while supporting quality service with a user-centered approach."

"ALA accredited Masters in Library and Information Science, Preferred Qualifications: undergraduate or second graduate degree in science or related fields or experience supporting science or related fields in an academic library"

"Collection Development,Education,Outreach/Advocacy,Reference Services"

"Responsibilities and duties of the position include providing virtual and in person research assistance, library instruction, performing resource development and serving as liaison to the College of Arts and Sciences with primary responsibilities to natural and physical sciences, kinesiology, health and physician assistant programs; develop electronic resource guides and tutorials to support teaching and research in assigned subject areas. This position might require traveling to regional campus sites to deliver research assistance and instruction and will include evening and weekend hours. As a faculty member, this position requires serving on university and library committees, participating in professional development activities and service to the community. Additionally, this position requires providing research and instruction services to a diverse university community including traditional aged and working adults, in undergraduate and graduate programs online, on campus and at regional campuses."
