2/4/2013

"Category:	Librarian (Open Rank)Department:	Public Services DivisionBenefits:	22 Days Annual Leave, 15 Days of Sick Leave, 	3 Days Personal Leave, 15 Paid Holidays		Tuition Remission, Health, Dental, Vision, and PrescriptionAs the largest university library system in the Washington D.C.-Baltimore area, the University of Maryland Libraries serve 37,000 students and faculty of the flagship College Park campus. The University of Maryland Libraries share the teaching, learning and research goals of the university. Its role as a key academic resource is evident in its service to the academic community and its actionable strategic plan. With collections including 3.9 million volumes and more than 40,000 serials subscriptions, the University of Maryland Libraries allocate 75 percent of its materials budget to electronic resources. Maryland ranks 50th among the 115 member libraries of the Association of Research Libraries and has an operating budget of $23.7 million.  The University of Maryland Libraries benefit from being situated geographically within minutes of the nation's capital and its departments, agencies, and research centers.The University of Maryland Libraries is seeking an Agriculture & Natural Resources Librarian.  Reporting to the Head of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Library (EPSL), the Agriculture & Natural Resources Librarian manages a combination of duties and expectations.  Duties and responsibilities include: library liaison to specified academic units/departments; data services and management; general and subject-specific research and information service and instruction; new or enhanced services using emerging technologies; collaborative work. The subject librarians have vision and dynamic perspective to help shape new approaches to faculty/library relationships.   Requirements: *	MLS degree from an ALA-accredited institution of higher education or advanced degree in agriculture or related discipline at time of appointment.*	Experience with or aptitude for working effectively and creatively with faculty and students.*	Understanding of current and emerging trends in the assigned subject areas; knowledge of electronic resources and information technologies.*	Excellent oral and written communication skills.*	Excellent interpersonal skills with the ability to function independently and in groups, build and maintain relationships with partners and library staff; ability to provide exceptional service to a diverse clientele.  Position is appointed to Librarian Faculty Ranks as established by the University System of Maryland Board of Regents. Rank at appointment is based on the successful applicant's experience and relevant credentials. For additional information, consult the following website: http://www.president.umd.edu/policies/ii-100B.html.For the full position description, please use the following URL:  http://www.lib.umd.edu/hr/employment-opportunities/staff-faculty-positions"
