6/27/2014

"The University of California, Santa Barbara, one of ten campuses of the University of California system, is seeking dynamic, highly motivated candidates for the position of Evolving Workforce Resident: Assistant Music Librarian.The UC Santa Barbara Library has maintained a residency program since 1985; UCSB Library was a leader in this regard and, like many programs that have developed since, had an early focus upon hiring new librarians from a diverse background.  The Library continues to have a strong commitment to the residency program and developing library professionals in a rapidly evolving information ecology.The Evolving Workforce Residency at the UCSB Library is intended to recruit those relatively new to working in a research library who can contribute effectively to the changing role of academic libraries. Graduates and early professionals come into the market with new ideas, enthusiasm, a contemporary educational experience, and the potential to be catalysts in transforming libraries. Many of these individuals will be the leaders in the next generation of library services. The program encourages Residents to imagine the academic library of the future and gives them the resources and freedom to experiment and explore new models. In return, the Library will benefit from the focused skills and initiative the Resident brings to redefine the required workforce of the future. The Resident will be hired for a term of two years, will participate in the librarian review process, and will be eligible for extension for a third year.  The Library is especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through work, research, and service.  Evolving Workforce Residency program description:  http://www.library.ucsb.edu/library-human-resources/library-residency-program"

"Required:  *	master's degree from a library school with a program accredited by the American Library Association or equivalent earned within the previous three years of the start date; or, another appropriate degree(s) or equivalent experience in one or more fields relevant to library services;*	bachelor's degree or substantial undergraduate or graduate coursework in music;*	excellent communication and interpersonal skills;*	ability to work independently and collaboratively in a team-oriented environment.Desired:  *	advanced degree in music;*	working knowledge of two Western European languages."

"Collection Development,Digital Collections,Reference Services"

"During the first year of the program the Resident will gain meaningful work experience in an academic library.  Working under the general direction of the Music Librarian, the Assistant Music Librarian:  *	provides in-depth reference services in music for faculty, students, and community members;*	develops and manages the music collections by selecting music materials in all formats;*	monitors  music serials and standing orders; *	formulates collection related policies;  *	maintains awareness of new trends in music and related interdisciplinary scholarship;*	maintains close contact with the music faculty regarding development of the music collections;*	participates in developing and evaluating goals, policies, and procedures to guide the services, outreach, and general operations of the Music Library;*	participates in planning related to the upcoming move of Music Library collections and services to the main library building;*	provides instruction in critical use of information resources relevant to music scholarship and performance; creates online guides and other informational materials;*	maintains awareness of new modes of dissemination for scholarly and creative production in music, as well as new and emerging media and other digital technologies and their applications in support of the Music Library's programs and services;*	participates in the Humanities Collection Group to further the overall goals of the library's collection development programs;*	participates in an active instructional program including credit-bearing library research classes. Also, during the first year, a specific project will be selected as a focus related to music librarianship or the broader goals of the Library with mentoring and training provided.The second year will include reporting out on the efforts to date on their project in mid-stage development.   If the Residency is renewed, the third year will allow the Resident to gain deeper knowledge and more substantial experience in their project area, culminating with a capstone project, preferably for publication, which incorporates the expertise and perspectives gained throughout the three years."
