7/3/2014

"Trinity University seeks a dynamic, forward-thinking individual to join its information literacy and liaison librarian program.  The successful candidate will join a team of energetic, creative librarians whose work earned them the ACRL Excellence in Academic Libraries award in 2007. This is a perfect professional opportunity for those who value the teaching mission of the library, enjoy frequent interaction with bright students and faculty in the library and the classroom, and also wish to participate in professional and scholarly activities as a faculty member.   This position will provide liaison support for the sciences.  The instruction/liaison librarian is one of a team that supports an innovative information literacy program at Trinity University. The university selected information literacy as its Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP) for the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools reaffirmation of accreditation (2007-2013). More information about this campus-wide information literacy effort is available at: http://php.trinity.edu/qep/info_lit/. The new university curriculum (approved in 2014) includes a substantial information literacy"

"Required: ALA-accredited MLS, with significant exposure to information technology and sources.   Bachelor's degree in a liberal arts and sciences discipline.  Background or evidence of strong interest in the physical or life sciences.  Excellent interpersonal skills with experience in one-on-one assistance, creating and delivering presentations, and developing outreach programs to users. Knowledge of  reference sources, as well as skill in searching web-based resources.  Strong communication skills, a high energy level, and self-confidence are also musts, as is the ability to work effectively and with initiative, both as a team member and as an individual.  Demonstrated interest in professional development and faculty activities. Preferred:  Experience in teaching or instruction in an academic setting.  Track record of participation in or development of innovative instruction programs, particularly those that use technology to enhance student learning.  Evidence of creative approaches to service problems, and an ability to understand and interpret students' experience of the library to the teaching faculty."

"Education,Reference Services"

"Primary responsibilities include teaching information literacy skills and concepts in assigned liaison areas, working with teaching faculty in those areas to develop departmental-specific objectives, and providing instructionally focused reference service. Duties will include teaching instruction sessions, workshops, and web-based tutorials.  Outreach will be central to this position.  One-on-one communication and collaboration with teaching faculty will be crucial, especially due to the development and redesign of courses and programs that align with Trinity's new curricular goals. The preparation of guides and tools to advance student learning and collection management will also be expected."
