7/16/2014

"The University Library's Subject Specialists supports graduate-level education and research in the Physical Sciences and Engineering (PSE) and the Biological and Environmental Science Engineering (BESE) divisions. Each positions is responsible for library collections and instructional and outreach services to faculty, researchers and students in assigned subject areas. The subject specialist will analyze academic departmental instruction and research programs to determine the strengths and weaknesses of the Library's supporting collections, and develop collections accordingly. He or she will serve as the main contact point between the library and assigned academic departments, providing instruction and outreach services, including reference consultations, information literacy instruction, and support for scholarly communications initiatives."

"*	Master's degree in Library Science or a relevant scientific field is required*	Comprehensive understanding of instruction and research trends in the sciences like scholarly communications issues and research data management;  *	Minimum of 3 years' experience in an academic or research library preferred;  *	Demonstrated experience with developing and delivering instructional programming;  *	Extensive experience using research and citation databases and the ability to learn and use new instructional technologies"

"Collection Development,Digital Collections,Education,Reference Services"

"Collection Management Duties.  *	The subject specialist will assume overall responsibility for the development of the collection in the assigned subject areas:  *	Select materials in all formats, review requests, book reviews, and other collection development sources, to initiate orders.  *	Gather and analyze usage statistics to aid in collection development decisions and policies  *	Assess databases and other electronic products available from publishers in assigned subject areas, and recommend purchase or license as appropriate.  *	Create and maintain subject webpages (libguides) in assigned areas  *	Develop collection development policies for assigned subject areas in consultation with faculty and other subject specialists.    Outreach & Scholarly Communications Duties  *	Maintain a level of contact with the faculty that will provide knowledge of academic and research programs sufficient to ensure that collections and services support curriculum and research needs.  *	Analyze the course offerings and keep abreast of developments in assigned fields.  *	Educate and inform faculty, graduate students, and others about scholarly communications issues, including author rights; seek an understanding of changing workflows and scholarly communications practices among faculty; advocate for sustainable models of scholarly communication  *	Work with faculty to identify content for KAUST digital repository.  *	Reference and Instruction  *	Provide specialized research assistance/consultation services in assigned subject areas.  *	Teach information literacy classes to students and faculty in assigned subject areas.  *	Assess for learning in instructional activities. *	Competent with a variety of relevant information technology tools and applications (e.g., multidisciplinary and relevant disciplinary bibliographic databases).  *	Well-informed on learning resources, developments, and trends in assigned subject areas.  *	Contribute to a dynamic, collegial library team supportive of the university's goals.  *	Actively participate in local and international partnerships with libraries, scientific societies, and organizations to improve information services in the sciences and engineering disciplines.  *	Assist with the development of library service policies and procedures.  *	Participate in the integration of library resources and services in KAUST teaching and learning.    *	Work at the library's Information Desk as assigned.*	Ability to initiate and develop strong working relationships with faculty, researchers, graduate students, fellow library staff, and vendors.  *	Confident and articulate in presenting training sessions.  *	Ability to work both independently and as part of a team.  *	Reliable and dependable in attendance and completing assignments.  *	Strong written and spoken English skills .  *	Strong public presentation abilities.  *	Strong analytical skills.  *	Commitment to excellent public service.  *	The ability to function in a fast-paced, dynamic environment; Exceptional interpersonal and communication skills *	Contribute to a dynamic, collegial library team supportive of the university's goals.  *	Actively participate in local and international partnerships with libraries, scientific societies, and organizations to improve information services in the sciences and engineering disciplines.  *	Assist with the development of library service policies and procedures.  *	Participate in the integration of library resources and services in KAUST teaching and learning."
