7/21/2014

"The University of North Texas Libraries seeks a dynamic public services librarian to serve as the Information Literacy Coordinator. The Information Literacy Coordinator will create a robust information literacy program, which fosters critical thinking, higher-order learning, quantitative reasoning, and learning strategies, for UNT students. The position is a 12-month full-time appointment and requires a strong commitment to service for the students, faculty and staff of the University. The Research and Instructional Services (RIS) Librarian exercises broad, independent judgment and authority under the direction of the RIS department head. The RIS Librarian will provide liaison services for assigned departments and programs. Liaison duties include providing instruction, research assistance, and other collaborations with the students and faculty. The RIS Librarian will also serve as the RIS Graduate Library Assistant (GLA) Coordinator. This position may require night and weekend hours."

"Minimum Qualifications: * Master's Degree in Library or Information Science from an ALA-accredited program (candidates expecting to earn their degree by December 2014 are welcome to apply). * Supervisory experience. * Experience teaching library instruction or workshops and developing training materials. * Experience providing research assistance using resources in various formats in an academic library setting. * Experience creating and maintaining subject guides or other online tools for classes and subjects, such as LibGuides. * Experience using course management systems, such as Blackboard. * Knowledge of trends in instructional technologies, emerging practices, and standards in an academic or research library environment. * Familiarity with information literacy standards. * Demonstrated ability to adjust priorities, take initiative, set goals, manage time wisely, and make effective decisions in a fast-paced environment. * Demonstrated aptitude for thinking creatively and developing products and services, such as publications, training materials, workshops, conferences, and other tools. * Demonstrated ability to establish positive and productive collaborations with faculty and library departments and divisions. * Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing. *Demonstrated contribution to the profession with scholarly publications and/or presentations and through contributions to professional organizations appropriate to the level of appointment.  Preferred Qualifications:* Second advanced degree. * Experience in collection development for research libraries, including emerging practices, standards, and trends relating to collection development and management in an academic or research library environment. * Demonstrated experience using instructional technologies. * Experience in designing information literacy instructional materials. * Experience in library assessment. * Experience designing a web presence in multiple platforms. * Knowledge of innovative practices to meet the needs of off- and on-campus users."

"Education,Outreach/Advocacy,Reference Services"

"This position is responsible for the information literacy activities of the UNT Libraries. As the Information Literacy Coordinator, the RIS Librarian will work closely with the Workshop Coordinator to create, maintain, and expand face-to-face and online information literacy instruction materials available to all UNT colleges and departments. The librarian will: * Provide instruction on information literacy topics and tools useful for academic and professional success; * Partner with campus faculty and staff to promote relevant workshops and information literacy training materials and programs; * Develop an online workshop and information literacy presence to address the needs of all students, including on-campus, off-campus, and distance learners; * Work with the Director of Research and Assessment to regularly assess the information literacy program to ensure its success. As the GLA Coordinator, the RIS librarian will: * Hire, train, and supervise six RIS GLAs; * Hold regular meetings with GLAs; * Develop training materials for the GLAs. As a liaison, the RIS Librarian will: * Provide in-person research assistance and instruction; * Develop a robust web presence through online tutorials and virtual workshops, and embedded librarian services. Content will be housed in the UNT course management system hosted by Blackboard, in LibGuides (subject guides and class pages), and on the library website; * Collaborate with the Collection Development Liaison Librarian to meet the collection development needs of assigned departments; * Plan and provide library orientations, events and outreach activities each semester to market current public services to incoming students, faculty and staff as related to research and instructional services; * Assess the services provided; * Participate in the activities of the Library Liaisons Program. The RIS Librarian will stay current with developments in technology, library, and information science fields as appropriate. As a member of the UNT faculty, the RIS Librarian participates in Research and Instructional Services Department activities and works to meet the requirements for scholarly, creative, and professional activities, and service to the libraries, university, and the community. Librarian rank will be determined by the Library Personnel Affairs Committee through review of the selected candidate's education, experience, scholarly and professional involvement, and service."
