7/29/2014

"Category:	Librarian (Open Rank)Department:	Research ServicesBenefits:	22 Days Annual Leave, 15 Days of Sick Leave, 3 Days Personal Leave, 15 Paid Holidays		Tuition Remission, Health, Dental, Vision, and PrescriptionAs the largest university library system in the Washington D.C.-Baltimore area, the University of Maryland Libraries serve more than 37,500 students and 4,200 faculty of the flagship College Park campus. The University of Maryland Libraries share the teaching, learning and research goals of the university. Its role as a key academic resource is evident in its service to the academic community and its actionable strategic plan. Recent membership in the Committee on Institutional Cooperation, a robust organization of Big Ten member institutions, is particularly meaningful to the University Libraries and will further propel the university's ascendancy in academic excellence.Based in the Humanities and Social Sciences Librarians group within the Research Services unit, the GIS/Geospatial and Geography Information Specialist will have responsibilities for GIS/Geospatial data, and liaison services to the Department of Geographical Sciences. The librarian in this position is a forward-focused individual who will establish and grow the Libraries' GIS services program. S/he will be an expert in applying geospatial concepts and techniques to the research agendas of faculty and students, will manage the geography and maps collections, maintaining strong relationships with faculty and students in the Department of Geographical Sciences, and will enhance curricula and research innovation across the University relating to spatial and visual thinking."

"Required Qualifications:*	ALA-accredited Master's degree in Library Information Science, or*	A Master's degree in GIS/Geography, Geology, Planning, Computer Science, or related discipline and equivalent background. *	Knowledge of the organization of information and of scholarship in the geoscience disciplines.*	Understanding of current and emerging trends in GIS, cartography and related geographic information resources and applications. *	Excellent oral and written communication skills; excellent interpersonal skills with the ability to function independently and in groups, build and maintain relationships with partners and library staff; ability to provide exceptional service to a diverse clientele.  Preferred Qualifications:*	Strong experience with ESRI software and its applications in research and teaching. *	Ability to conduct environmental scans and reviews of faculty and student research needs. *	Demonstrated strong teaching abilities.  *	Experience in or aptitude towards collection development in Geography, including in specialized formats required by the discipline. *	Ability to lead change.*	One year of library or related professional experience. *	Experience with web technologies, repository systems, or database structure, description and development. *	Familiarity with Semantic Web technologies; and collections (e.g., scholarly journals, databases, digital libraries and other formats). *	Knowledge of remote sensing, Visual Basic programming skills, understanding of and/or willingness to learn math and statistical analysis.For the full position description, please go to http://www.lib.umd.edu/hr/employment-opportunities/staff-faculty-positions. Position is appointed to Librarian Faculty Ranks as established by the University System of Maryland Board of Regents. Rank at appointment is based on the successful applicant's experience and relevant credentials. For additional information, consult the following website: http://www.president.umd.edu/policies/ii-100B.html.The University of Maryland, College Park, actively subscribes to a policy of equal employment opportunity, and will not discriminate against any employee or applicant because of race, age, sex, color, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, religion, ancestry or national origin, marital status, genetic information, political affiliation, or gender identity and expression.  Minorities and women are encouraged to apply."

"Data Visualization,Digital Collections"

"Responsibilities:*	Develop a robust GIS Program based on analysis of constituent needs through the University.*	Actively engages and collaborates with the Department of Geographical Sciences and other units to develop a comprehensive plan for GIS services in the Libraries' Research Commons, and on campus.  *	Serves as library liaison to the Department of Geographical Sciences, which involves, but is not limited to, promoting services available through the Libraries, teaching  introductory and upper level GIS workshops, and other related courses in support of the Libraries' information literacy efforts and faculty research, creating web and digital content, developing and managing print and electronic collections, providing research data management services, and overseeing the maps collection in all formats and locations.*	Support data visualization activities by promoting techniques associated with specialized, evolving data visualization tools for spatial applications.*	Design and deliver consulting services to faculty and students using spatial data in a wide range of units across the University, and will collaborate with units already providing GIS consulting.*	Work closely with the Digital Programs and Initiatives, and others to increase understanding of geospatial and data issues pertaining to research and teaching throughout the Libraries and on campus at large.  *	Responsible for acquiring, developing, and curating geospatial data collections and for leveraging research software and technology resources to enhance course development and research innovation.*	Provides general and subject-specific information and research service in person, by phone, through CHAT, IM, and by email, exploring new ways of communication and challenging existing limitations. *	Participates in the activities of the Humanities and Social Sciences Librarians and Research Services, in library and campus committees as appropriate.  *	Participates in professional development activities.*	Performs other duties as assigned."
