8/13/2014

"Washington State University invites applications for Animal Health Sciences Librarian, a full-time, 12-month, tenure-track position.  The Animal Health Sciences Librarian provides information services in veterinary and comparative medicine, basic biomedical sciences, and global animal health; teaches classes on accessing and managing information; serves as liaison to assigned departments and selects materials for the collections in those disciplines.   Washington State University Libraries have a hybrid organizational structure that relies on a traditional unit based structure in concert with a team focused approach to successfully meet the needs of the Washington State University community.  This position will report to the Associate Dean of Libraries and will be part of a dynamic and collaborative environment made up of the Liaison Team, the Collection Management Working Group, and the Reference Team.  This position is located in the Animal Health Library on the Pullman campus."

"Minimum/Required Qualifications:  Master's degree from an ALA-Accredited Library and Information Studies program at date of hire; bachelor's degree in the sciences; excellent oral and written communication skills; ability to work creatively, collaboratively, and effectively both as a team member and independently, and to promote teamwork among colleagues.Preferred Qualifications:  Experience in an academic or medical library setting; experience with emerging technologies; additional degrees or coursework in the health sciences; coursework or experience with library instruction; ability to develop outreach programs to academic communities; demonstrated ability to assess and improve services;  demonstrated commitment to and experience with diverse populations; documented achievement in research and creative work and professional service."

"Collection Development,Reference Services"

"Position Details:*	As a member of the Liaison Team, this position is responsible for designing, delivering and/or assessing liaison and outreach services to academic departments and student support services.  This includes specialized reference and instruction activity that is performed by the subject specialists.   This may include direct support of, or participation in, selected DVM education program activities.  Such activities include but are not limited to the Diagnostic Challenge exercises, training residents from the Veterinary Teaching Hospital, and graduate student training.  Team members work to promote and deliver Library services and resources, and support university affiliates to develop positive public relations with faculty, departments, and colleges.    Leads the collaboration with local library services that support the Washington, Idaho, Montana, Utah Regional DVM education students taught at Utah State University and Montana State University. (45%)  *	As a member of the Collection Management Working Group, the Animal Health Sciences Librarian selects materials within budget allocations for and takes part in evaluation and weeding of collections in assigned subjects and departments. Selectors also keep current on trends and developments, work with Collections Management Working Group and Collections Manager to carry out policies and programs, and provide feedback, ideas, and suggestions.  (25%)*	As a member of the Reference Team, the Animal Health Sciences Librarian delivers comprehensive reference assistance to library users face to face and virtually, participates in the development of reference policies and assessment, keeps current on pertinent issues, develops reference collections for designated departments/programs/areas, works effectively and cooperatively with colleagues wherever located to provide high-quality reference services, and maintains a professional presence in all reference transactions.  Team members also keep current on trends and developments, work with the Steering Committee and Team Leader to carry out policies and programs, and provide feedback, ideas, and suggestions.  (20%)Scholarship, Service, & Professional Development:Participate in appropriate scholarship, faculty governance, and service as a library faculty member; engage in library-wide initiatives as appropriate; maintain current awareness of trends and advancements in academic librarianship, and actively participate in appropriate meetings and organizations."
