8/14/2014

"Central Washington University in Ellensburg, WA, is seeking a Reference Librarian who will be responsible for professional duties associated with the operations of the Reference Department, the promotion of information literacy and library instruction:  provide reference services and instruction to students and faculty at Brooks Library; provision of information literacy instruction to classes and groups; collaborative provision of reference assistance in the Academic and Research Commons (ARC) with Student Success; assist users in finding information using the library catalog, electronic databases and other resources; creation of instructional guides; participates in collection development and faculty liaison/embedded librarian services.This is a 0.90 FTE Non-Tenure Track faculty position. Appointment will begin on November 1, 2014.  This is a 1-year appointment. If this position converts to a tenure-track faculty position, a national search will be conducted. For complete info & to apply online, https://jobs.cwu.edu. Screening begins 9/8/14. CWU is an AA/EEO/Title IX Institution."

ALA-accredited M.L.S.; demonstrated knowledge of and experience with the operations of a reference department and the promotion of information literacy and library instruction.

"Education,Reference Services"

"Reference * Provide reference service to patrons in person, on the phone, and via email and other electronic means.* Participate in the updating of library systems and related technology.* Interact with community resources to enhance reference collection and patron information opportunities.* Promote interest in the library as a community resource.* Plan and organize special programs involving the use of library resources.* Some evening and weekend work may be required.Instruction, Outreach and Embedded Librarianship:* Promote the development of policies and procedures, best practices, and workflows that support and enhance scholarship and encourages the development of services and programs that are both comprehensive for the university community and responsive to specific user groups. * May be responsible for teaching credit-bearing courses supporting the Library Information Science (LIS) Minor.* Engage in embedded librarianship/liaison with academic departments as assigned in providing instruction, reference, and outreach activities as part of the strategic mission of the Brooks Library.  * Perform professional library services in assisting library students, faculty, staff, and general patrons in the selection and use of library materials.  * Develop reading, reference, and research materials through selection of books, materials, and equipment.  * Provide training to staff as needed.Support of Library Operations:Participate in appropriate faculty and professional activities and actively participates in Library, University and professional committees and task forces.  Other duties as assigned."
