8/20/2014

"Job Summary: Performs a variety of professional library work, including reference and readers' advisory services, youth services, cataloging, selection and collection management, programming, staff and customer training, special projects; and performs other related duties as assigned.Essential Functions:(Functions listed are intended only as illustrations of the various types of work performed. The omission of specific duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.)1.	Works in public service area answering information and readers' advisory questions;2.	Identifies and locates library materials and assists customers in locating materials;3.	Assists and instructs customers in use of library resources, facilities, and policies;4.	Assists customers in performing computer searches and using electronic databases;5.	May perform copy and original cataloging and classification of library materials;6.	Coordinates selection and acquisitions processes for library materials, including maintaining standing orders and serials databases and files and monitoring holds buy ratios;7.	Designs and presents programs and presentations and accompanying materials;8.	Assists in training staff newly assigned to work area;9.	Keeps records and statistics; prepares reports;10.	Keeps abreast of practices and trends in public librarianship by attending workshops and educational programs and reading periodicals and specialized literature; and recommends more efficient practices; 11.	Attends meetings, trainings and seminars; participates in various committees and team activities;12.	Fills in for any subordinate position, as needed;13.	Maintains positive relationships with other staff and members of the public;14.	Requires regular and punctual employee presence;15.	Acts as a representative of Sacramento Public Library to the public;16.	May:*	Select new and replacement materials and perform collection management functions in assigned area;*	Perform outreach activities, including school visits, story time presentations, and contacting community organizations and agencies;*	Carry out or supervise special projects;*	Prepare schedules;*	Supervise shelvers and volunteers;*	Perform circulation functions;*	Be in charge of a department or branch during short term absence of supervisor; *	Perform simple repair and maintenance on computers and other equipment; and17.	Performs other related duties as assigned.Required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:  The employee is expected to perform or possess the following:Knowledge of:1.	Sacramento Public Library's policies and procedures and practices and procedures of assigned department or branch;2.	Current reference and search tools, including electronic resources, the Internet and bibliographic utilities, and the ability to use them;3.	Integrated library system procedures and explain to staff and library customers;4.	Customer service techniques in a wide variety of situations and towards a diverse customer population;5.	Basic understanding of the principles of cataloging and understanding of the Dewey system;6.	Principles and practices of intellectual freedom and the Library Bill of Rights.Ability to:1.	Successfully communicate with other staff members, library customers, representatives of community organizations, schools, and agencies, and library vendors and suppliers;2.	Establish and maintain effective working relationships with other staff and work as a team; 3.	Understand the customer's needs and deliver services by focusing on the customer;4.	Take initiative to ensure a positive and successful customer experience by contributing to finding solutions, regardless of assigned responsibility;5.	Respond to customers and address customer complaints/problems in a timely, accurate, courteous, respectful and friendly manner;6.	Possess attention to detail and follow through on tasks effectively and efficiently;7.	Establish priorities and organize workload effectively and efficiently while paying attention to detail and complete assignments under pressure;8.	Maintain a pleasant and productive working atmosphere; maintain composure and work effectively even when under pressure;9.	Keep all relevant parties informed of all major issues and to recommend changes as appropriate;10.	Act on behalf of the branch or department supervisor as necessary.Skill in:1.	Operating relevant computer systems, including hardware and software; current audio-visual equipment; and office machines."

"Education and Experience: 1.	Master's degree in Library Science from an ALA accredited university;2.	No experience necessary;"

"Children's Services,Education,Event Planning,Outreach/Advocacy,Young Adult Services"

"Are you passionate about providing excellent library service to children and teens alike?  Do you want a position where every workday looks different from the one before? If you're flexible, engaged, creative, and committed, we'd love to hear from you. Sacramento Public Library is looking for librarians who are passionate about literacy and community partnerships, understand that early literacy is critical to building healthy communities and who genuinely love serving diverse populations.Come join our collaborative and creative team of professionals.  We are the fourth largest library system in California, serving one of California's most diverse counties.  Our 28 locations include urban, suburban and rural branches.  We offer supportive colleagues, competitive salaries, and a chance for you to shine.We will be creating a new Eligibility List that will be used to staff Youth Services Librarian openings that occur in the next 6 months."
