9/18/2014

The Reference Librarian is responsible for providing information services to all users at the Riverpoint Campus Library to include but not limited to providing in person and electronic reference services to all library users; plan and teach library instruction classes; and keep current on trends and developments in library and information science.

"Minimum/Required Qualifications:*	Master's Degree in Information/Library Science from an American Library Association (ALA) accredited school.*	Demonstrated effective interpersonal, written and oral communication skills;*	Demonstrated ability to interact with large groups and individuals at all work levels;*	Demonstrated sensitivity to and desire to promote diversity;*	Demonstrated proficiency in the use of computers and software applications;*	A record showing commitment to customer service and the application of appropriate flexibility in response to issues and opposing points of view is required.Preferred Qualifications:*	Experience in an academic or medical library setting.*	Experience with emerging technologies."

"Collection Development,Reference Services"

"Reference, Instruction, Program Liaison, & Collection Coordination*	Provide in-person and electronic reference services to all library users. Assist in locating and obtaining information from the entire universe of physical and electronic resources. *	Plan and teach library instruction classes for all programs and disciplines as requested. Create and maintain online user guides and websites to meet current needs of faculty and students.*	Serve as library liaison and principal contact for campus departments and programs as requested by the Director. Select library materials for purchase within budget limitations, provide specialized reference consultation to faculty and students, and teach classes to support research and learning in those disciplines.*	In collaboration with Riverpoint Eastern Washington University (EWU) colleagues, strive to build and maintain a coherent, optimally useful collection to serve the faculty and programs at the joint-use Riverpoint Campus Library.o	In consultation with the Library Director, responsible for annual WSU Spokane print/online journal subscription renewals and activations. Work with periodicals staff on control and maintenance of journal collection and maintenance of accurate holdings information in various catalogs and databases.o	Communicate and interpret WSU cataloging policies and procedures to library staff and users and watch for problems concerning bibliographic access to collections. Suggest acceptable solutions, collaborating with responsible library personnel at WSU Pullman to ensure the integrity of the catalog. Coordinate local maintenance of holdings in catalog.o	Monitor and evaluate use of the collection to assist in planning for resource development. With library staff, maintain physical condition and order of the collections. Compile and report collection statistics and inventory holdings as needed.o	Provide specialized support to WSU College of Nursing campus in Yakima. Maintain inventory of holdings and work extensively with Yakima staff member to guarantee required current collection and resources to meet the need of basic and graduate nursing students at that locale.*	Share in circulation staffing with other library personnel and perform other duties as appropriate.Professional/Scholarly Activities*	Keep current on trends and developments in library and information science by reading professional literature, participating in professional organizations and committees, and attending workshops, institutes, seminars and conferences.*	Conduct research for publications and presentations in areas of library and information science or other scholarly subjects.*	Share with library colleagues and department faculty and staff relevant information gained from professional activities and use that knowledge to improve library operations.Service to the Library, University and the Public*	Serve on University, WSU Library, and other committees and groups as appropriate. Represent the Riverpoint Campus Library to the community as requested."
