10/3/2014

"Embrace scholarly exploration, collaboration and intellectual engagement working with a team of professionals dedicated to diversity, integrity, and innovation as the Head of Special Collections, UC Santa Barbara Library. The University of California, Santa Barbara http://www.ucsb.edu/, one of ten campuses of the University of California system, seeks an experienced, forward-looking, and engaging leader-scholar for the position of Head, Special Research Collections. The successful candidate will guide the Department through its continuing evolution into a dynamic and innovative resource serving diverse and changing scholar needs and interests. The Head will articulate a vision and strategic direction that promotes the visibility, accessibility, and impact of nationally and internationally recognized primary research collections, expert services, facilitate collaboration of relevant initiatives and programs, develop fundraising strategies, and integrate the treasures of the Department into teaching, research, and learning at the University. In addition, The Head of SRC will have the opportunity to participate in the planning, design, and furnishing of the new 2015 three story addition. He/she will have the responsibility for envisioning, defining and initiating services, showcasing prominent collections, and offering special programs, exhibitions, etc. in this new state of the art facility.The Department of Special Research Collections acquires, maintains, preserves, and ensures accessibility of its most valuable, rare and unique materials. The collection includes approximately 250,000 volumes, 16,000 linear feet of manuscripts, 100,000 photographs and 200,000+ early sound recordings. Named collections are the Wyles Collection of nineteenth and twentieth century American History, the American Religions Collection, the Performing Arts Collections, the California Ethnic and Multicultural Archives, and the Humanistic Psychology Archives. The Department of Special Research Collections also serves as the University Archive."

"Required Qualifications include an ALA-accredited MLIS or Masters in Archival Studies, an advanced degree in a relevant subject area or a substantial record of research and scholarship, and demonstrated experience in special collections or archives. The successful candidate will have superior leadership skills including demonstrated management and supervisory experience with success in leading, guiding, and fostering a dynamic workplace environment; ability to articulate a vision, set priorities, organizational goals, and introduce and manage change; and the ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with campus scholars, officials, UC colleagues, dealers, vendors, staff, and library supporters.  The new Head will show a strong commitment to excellence in public service and a commitment to serving diverse users including faculty, students, researchers, community users, and visiting scholars. An understanding of emerging technologies, key issues and trends in archives and special collections is also a vital quality of the selected candidate. Other essential attributes are demonstrated success in cultivating donor relationships; a record of achievement in obtaining grants, gifts, or awards; the ability to organize, publicize, and promote a variety of events for the Department of Special Research Collections; and excellent oral, written and interpersonal communication skills.   Preferred qualifications include certification by the Academy of Certified Archivists; strong success in building outstanding special collections; demonstrated working knowledge of the rare book and manuscripts trade and familiarity with the principles and methods of conservation, preservation, and security of materials; experience working with curators, technical services, digital processing, and knowledge of copyright law. Excellent analytical, creative problem solving skills, and ability to exercise sound judgment; budget and resource allocations experience; and a record of active and continuous participation in professional associations are also desirable."

Archives

"The Head of Special Research Collections reports to the AUL for Research and Scholar Services and is responsible for the administration, planning, and management of the department personnel, resources, services, and operations. The incumbent has leadership and administrative responsibility for collection development, budgeting (including endowments, gifts, grant-funded projects), security and preservation, digitization projects, public relations, and fundraising activities. The Head establishes and sustains faculty and researcher relationships and is responsible for strategic and effective collection development, maintenance and preservation of collections, overall collection policies and works to ensure materials are discoverable, accessible and used by clientele. The Head also works closely with University Librarian, other library administrators, Library Development Officer, faculty and professional colleagues to identify new sources and contacts for enhancing funds and collections, initiates and writes proposals, and provides stewardship for existing gifts and awards. In addition, the Head will work with others to organize and manage special events and exhibits and establish partnerships with campus departments, museums, UC system wide Special Collections Departments, and units within the library to maximize support and increase visibility of the collections."
