10/7/2014

"The Consortium Library at the University of Alaska Anchorage (UAA) is recruiting for a term Engineering Librarian with a strong commitment to information literacy instruction and user education.  Reporting to the Head of the Instruction and Research Services Department, this librarian should be highly productive, innovative, and technologically adept.  The successful candidate will have excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills, and a strong commitment to quality customer service."

"Required EducationMaster's Degree from an ALA-accredited Library and Information Science program or equivalent by December 31, 2014.Required Knowledge, Skills, Abilities*	Evidence of knowledge of, or experience working with, engineering and/or science information resources; or education in Engineering, Geomatics, GIS, technological disciplines, or equivalent; or work experience in engineering or related field*	Teaching, training, or presenting experience*	Knowledge of Information Literacy ConceptsPreferred Knowledge, Skills, Abilities*	Reference experience*	Library instruction experience*	Work experience in a library or research institute*	Strong technology skills, e.g., Information Technologies (databases, discovery tools), Instructional Technologies (screencasting software, course management software), Web 2.0 *	Collection development knowledge or experience*	Knowledge of outreach strategies"

"Collection Development,Outreach/Advocacy,Reference Services"

"Teaching and Liaison ResponsibilitiesThe term Engineering Librarian will provide instruction, reference, collection development, and outreach liaison activities to UAA's School of Engineering, including Geomatics, Geographical Information Systems (GIS), and the Alaska Native Science and Engineering Program. Teaching responsibilities include actively promoting, developing, and delivering face-to-face and distance instruction in various formats.  The ten faculty librarians in the Library's Instruction and Research Services Department teach library research classes and workshops for their respective subject liaison programs, and provide instruction for General Education Requirement (GER), and developmental English and college preparatory courses.  The instruction program emphasizes embedding information literacy across the university's curriculum, developing online learning objects, and integrating new technologies and e-pedagogy. Research instruction is also provided at the reference desk for students, staff, faculty, and members of the public in the sciences, social sciences, and humanities, along with in-depth research consultations for liaison areas.  Hours for instruction and research services will include days, nights, and weekends.Liaison collection development activities will include collaborating with the Collection Development Department and other subject liaisons to build digital and print collections in support of teaching, learning, and research.  Liaison responsibilities include selecting materials, with special emphasis on identifying electronic resources for engineering."
