10/21/2014

"Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth in New Haven, Connecticut.  Conveniently located between Boston and New York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural resources that include two major art museums, a critically-acclaimed repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.Position Focus: Reporting to the Associate University Librarian for Arts and Humanities, the Director of the Divinity School Library provides leadership and is responsible for the overall administration, organization, and development of Yale's Divinity School Library and off-site collections. The Director manages all aspects of library service, collection development, collection management, budget administration (including endowments and grants), personnel management, and facilities planning for both general and special collections. The Director also actively collaborates with library directors from other Yale units to develop and maintain theology-related collections and services, and serves as the Divinity Library's representative to Yale University Library's Council for Research Services and Collections. The Director directs and advises a staff of 12 FTE and a number of student assistants. The Director advises and works closely with the Dean of the Divinity School on library matters and is responsible for building strong partnerships with the School's faculty and students, the heads of other University Library departments, as well as prospective donors. The Director will evaluate the services, policies, collections, electronic resources, and facilities of the Divinity Library and will establish and implement plans for its continued development and improvement while coordinating these programs and collections with those of other libraries on campus. The Director participates in various committee assignments and is expected to demonstrate professional leadership and commitment in appropriate regional, national and international professional organizations, such as the American Theological Library Association, the International Association for Mission Studies, and the Yale-Edinburgh Group on the History of the Missionary Movement and World Christianity.The Director will possess passionate commitment both to collection building and to active, innovative public service programs in support of teaching and research in theology.Required Education, Skills and Experience:  *	Master's degree from an ALA accredited library school or equivalent accredited degree. Minimum of 5 years related post-Master's experience.  Preferred:  at least 8 years related post-Master's experience.*	Strong commitment to collection building and to innovative public service programs. *	Demonstrated excellent oral and written communications and analytical ability. *	Demonstrated excellent customer service skills, flexibility and a strong commitment to innovation, creativity and excellence. *	Demonstrated problem solving skills, experience coordinating projects, and the ability to bring projects to fruition. *	Demonstrated experience working collaboratively and independently with various groups within a complex organization and rapidly changing team environment. *	Strong background in theology. *	Demonstrated positive attitude toward continuous professional growth. Preferred Education, Skills and Experience: Knowledge and experience with digital collections and tools for research and teaching are highly desirable. Knowledge and experience in the areas of mission history and world Christianity is also highly desirable. Preference given to candidates with theology or religious studies-related graduate degrees.The University and the LibraryThe Yale University Library, as one of the world's leading research libraries, collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to and services for a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity. It fosters intellectual growth and supports the teaching and research missions of Yale University and scholarly communities worldwide. A distinctive strength is its rich spectrum of resources, including around 12.8 million volumes and information in all media, ranging from ancient papyri to early printed books to electronic databases. The Library is engaging in numerous projects to expand access to its physical and digital collections. Housed in eighteen buildings including the Sterling Memorial Library, the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, and the Bass Library, it employs a dynamic and diverse staff of approximately five hundred who offer innovative and flexible services to library readers.  For additional information on the Yale University Library, please visit the Library's web site at www.library.yale.edu. The Yale Divinity School Library is one of the most important theological libraries in the world. The Library's holdings include Yale's research collections in most areas related to the study of Christianity. The Library's Day Missions Collection is the world's preeminent resource for published and archival documentation of mission history and world Christianity, with substantial support for its nurture.  In addition the Divinity Library has particular strength in Biblical studies, Christian theology (both historical and constructive), and the history of Christianity.  http://web.library.yale.edu/divinity/aboutSalary and Benefits:We invite you to discover the excitement, diversity, rewards and excellence of a career at Yale University. One of the country's great workplaces, Yale University offers exciting opportunities for meaningful accomplishment and true growth. Our benefits package is among the best anywhere, with a wide variety of insurance choices, liberal paid time off, fantastic family and educational benefits, a variety of retirement benefits, extensive recreational facilities, and much more.How to apply:  Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled.  Applications, consisting of a cover letter, resume, and the names and contact information of three professional references should be submitted by applying online at http://www.yale.edu/jobs. The STARS req. ID for this position is 27768BR.  Please be sure to reference 27768BR in your cover letter. Yale University considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of an individual's sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression."



"Archives,Cataloging,Education"
