3/6/2013

"The Hamersly Library at Western Oregon University seeks an Instruction Librarian. Western Oregon University serves a diverse population of students and the candidate must be able to teach and provide reference service to a variety of students ranging from first generation, traditional, non-traditional, graduate and International students. The successful applicant will enter as Assistant Professor into a full-time, 12-month, tenure-track position. This position reports to the Dean of the Library, who leads the library faculty in a consensus model of management.The Instruction Librarian serves in a collaborative role with the librarians in designing and implementing classroom and web based information literacy instruction at Western Oregon University. The candidate must be able to design and develop engaging course-related library instruction sessions and be versed in current and emerging instructional theory and application. The candidate will combine traditional library instruction services with the use of current and emerging technologies.The candidate will:_ Collaborate in the development of credit bearing courses_ Identify and implement current and emerging technologies that further the library's instruction mission_ Facilitate the use of library resources and other tool sets within the learning management system_ Manage the library's social media and utilize other strategies to promote library services and resources_ Provide reference services, both in person and via chat and text messaging_ Serve as liaison to assigned academic disciplines; take responsibility for library instruction, collection development, and web-based subject guides in those disciplinesCampus and Community Responsibilities:Librarians participate in campus and professional committees and service activities; work toward promotion and tenure.For details and to apply, please visit: http://www.wou.edu/admin/hr/faculty/2013-2014/F1303_Instruction_Librarian.pdf"

"Required:MLS degree from ALA-accredited institution by time of appointment (July 1, 3013) is required. Demonstrated knowledge of information literacy concepts, instructional design, assessment, and curriculum development is necessary. Candidates must also be able to work collegially and have demonstrated analytical, organizational, leadership and communications skills.Desired Qualifications:Experience or education in:_ Teaching_ Development of online tutorials and related materials_ Social media management_ Collection development and subject liaison responsibilities"
