10/31/2014

"TITLE:  Research & Instruction Librarian/ Science and Math LibrarianLOCATION: University of Washington Bothell and Cascadia College Campus Library.The University of Washington Libraries seeks a creative and energetic librarian to join a collaborative team of librarians, faculty, and academic staff who are committed to innovation in teaching, learning and research.THE LIBRARIES:  Serving three campuses, the University of Washington Libraries is one of the largest and most innovative libraries in North America with collections exceeding 8 million volumes, over 500,000 electronic books, more than 120,000 currently received journal titles, as well as millions of scholarly resources in other formats.  Beyond the strength of local collections and digital resources, the Libraries is recognized for its excellent service, innovative learning and research spaces, faculty partnerships, global reach, extensive assessment efforts and  diverse award-winning staff.  The Libraries plays a significant leadership role regionally as a member in the groundbreaking Orbis Cascade Alliance and throughout the profession as evidenced by the number of its staff selected for competitive leadership programs and honored by professional association lifetime achievement awards.CAMPUS AND LIBRARY:The University of Washington Libraries serves the students, faculty, and staff of Cascadia College and the University of Washington Bothell at their co-located campus in Bothell, located 18 miles north of downtown Seattle. UW Bothell currently offers programs in Business; Educational Studies; Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences; Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics; and Nursing and Health Studies.  Librarians collaborate frequently with UW Bothell academic staff from Information Technologies (including Learning Technologies), the Quantitative Skills Center, Teaching and Learning Center, and the Writing and Communication Center.  More information on UW Bothell and its programs can be found at http://www.uwb.edu.  Cascadia offers a wide range of Associate degrees and certificates, including an Associate in Science More about Cascadia College can be found here:  http://www.cascadia.edu/ The Library is committed to equity, diversity and social justice, more about this can be found here:  http://libguides.uwb.edu/libraryEDSJteam More information about the Library can be found at http://library.uwb.eduGENERAL DESCRIPTION:Under the general direction of the Head of Teaching and Learning, this position will partner with colleagues within the Library and across the campus to develop, deliver, and assess in-person and online instruction that integrates information literacy into the curriculum, and will utilize learning technologies and pedagogies in support of student learning. Provides classroom and online instruction for targeted courses within the Library's integrated information literacy program at the lower division, including College 101 and English 102 at Cascadia Community College, and Discovery Core and Research Writing classes in the first year program at UW Bothell.  The Research & Instruction Librarian will also serve as a liaison to undergraduate and graduate faculty and students in subject areas within the sciences, which may include Biology, Math, Chemistry and Physics, as well as additional liaison areas to be determined based on experience and current needs of the unit. In consultation with the Head of Collections, librarians, and faculty, will select print and electronic materials for the undergraduate and graduate curricula, informed by the larger research collections across the UW Libraries and regional consortia. Includes collaborative tri-campus efforts with counterpart colleagues at UW Seattle and UW Tacoma to meet collection needs for each campus. In consultation with the Head of Research Services, will provide assistance for a range of research inquiries in the Library's Information Commons and online through the UW Libraries' email and chat reference services. Some evening and weekend reference and instruction work will be required.Librarians are expected to play an active role in planning and assessing library services, and to take responsibility for his/her professional development in pursuit of promotion and continuing appointment.Some travel will be required.QUALIFICATIONS:Required:* Graduate degree from a program accredited by the American Library Association or an equivalent graduate library science/information studies degree.* Demonstrated commitment to diversity and understanding of the contributions a diverse workforce brings to the workplace.Preferred:* Experience or demonstrated knowledge in the provision of instruction services in a college or university setting is highly desirable.  Familiarity with information literacy concepts, trends, pedagogies, and assessment.* Experience or demonstrated knowledge of current and emerging instructional technologies and online learning pedagogies in support of hybrid or distance instruction.* Experience or demonstrated knowledge in the provision of reference services to college or university students, in person and online.  Strong user centered public service philosophy.* Experience or demonstrated knowledge in working with students from diverse backgrounds, interests, and abilities who possess a wide range of educational goals.  * Ability to work in a team environment where consultation, flexibility, creativity, collaboration, and cooperation are essential.  Commitment to continually seeking improvement in services, collections, and facilities.  * Excellent interpersonal and communication skills.SALARY:	$48,204 minimum, 12 month annual contract.  Starting salary commensurate with qualifications and background.RANK: Position will be at rank of Assistant Librarian or Sr. Assistant Librarian, depending on qualifications and background.BENEFITS: Librarians are academic personnel and participate in the University of Washington Retirement Plan (TIAA-CREFand/or Fidelity Investments) on a matching basis.  Vacation is accrued at the rate of 24 working days per year; sick leave at the rate of 12 working days per year.  Excellent medical, dental and life insurance plans.  No state or local income tax.APPLICATION PROCESS:	To apply for this position, please submit the following information to libhr@uw.edu:* Cover letter (addressed to Laura Lillard, Assistant Director, Libraries Academic Human Resources)* Curriculum vitae or resume(include a telephone number, mailing address, email address and salary requirements) * Teaching Statement: Applicants are also to provide a separate statement of no more than one page addressing their general teaching philosophy and commitment to teaching information literacy.* List of three references (including current or most recent supervisor) who are knowledgeable of your qualifications for this position (include telephone numbers, mailing addresses, and email addresses) * Please use ""Librarian Application"" in the subject heading.* Please submit all components in a single, multi-page PDF document. All submissions will be maintained in a secure, password protected online file space until interviews are conducted. Then, some application materials will be circulated.APPLICATION DEADLINE:	To ensure consideration, applications should be received no later than 5:00 p.m., December 5, 2014. University of Washington Libraries home page is http://www.lib.washington.eduThe University of Washington is an affirmative action and equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to, among other things, race, religion, color, national origin, sex, age, status as protected veterans, or status as qualified individuals with disabilities.In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the University is required to verify and document the citizenship or employment authorization of each new employee.  For questions about this position, or questions regarding potential disability accommodations, please contact Laura Lillard at libhr@uw.edu."
