11/7/2014

"The Columbia University Libraries invites nominations and applications for the position of Humanities Research Services Librarian, Humanities & History Libraries division. The Humanities Research Services Librarian engages and collaborates with faculty and students across the humanities and history departments and in particular, the Department of Germanic Languages. The Librarian will collect materials in Germanic languages and literatures and in other areas as needed. The Librarian manages collection funds, selects materials, and coordinates outreach. As part of the Humanities & History Libraries team, the Librarian is responsible for research consultations, instructional services, and providing front_line research support in_person and virtually. The Librarian will support digital humanities initiatives and engage technologies emerging as critical to research and teaching in the humanities and history to meet the evolving needs of faculty, students, and staff. The Librarian will also participate in service programs across the Libraries including research information management and new forms of scholarly communication. The Librarian will work closely with colleagues from the Humanities and History Libraries, and collaborate on digital projects with colleagues from the Center for Digital Research and Scholarship. The position will report to the Director of the Humanities & History Libraries division.The Humanities and History Libraries Division collections and services directly support the research and learning activities of the departments of Classics, English and Comparative Literature, Film, French & Romance Philology, History, Germanic Languages, Italian, Music, and Theater. The Division also actively supports the Center for Ethnomusicology, the Center for Jazz Studies, the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race, the Computer Music Center, the Comparative Literature & Society Program, the Institute for Research in African_American Studies, and the Institute for Research on Women & Gender, and provides primary library and research support services for the Core Curriculum, Columbia College, the School of General Studies, and the broader undergraduate population, in partnership with other library divisions. The Humanities and History Division also supports a range of research and pedagogical activities involving digital tools and methods in the Digital Humanities Center and the Digital Music Lab.One of the world's leading research universities, Columbia provides outstanding opportunities to work and grow in a unique intellectual community. Set in the Morningside Heights academic village, Columbia also presents the unmatched dynamism, diversity and cultural richness of New York City. The University Libraries, grounded in collections of remarkable depth and breadth, are also building extensive electronic resources and services. The Libraries at Columbia are committed to collegiality, professionalism, innovation and leadership.We offer a salary commensurate with qualifications and experience and excellent benefits.Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity employer."

"The successful candidate will have:-Advanced degree in the humanities or history or an accredited MLS or equivalent combination of education and experience-Proficiency in German-Proven aptitude for public service and successful experience working effectively with faculty and students-Experience providing service in an academic and technology_based environment-Teaching experience in a classroom or training environment-Excellent interpersonal, collaboration, and communication skills"

"Collection Development,Reference Services"
