11/20/2014

"LOCATION:	Mathematics Research LibraryTHE LIBRARIES:  Serving three campuses, the University of Washington Libraries is one of the largest and most innovative libraries in North America with collections exceeding 8 million volumes, over 500,000 electronic books, more than 120,000 currently received journal titles, as well as millions of scholarly resources in other formats. Beyond the strength of local collections and digital resources, the Libraries is recognized for its excellent service, innovative learning and research spaces, faculty partnerships, global reach, extensive assessment efforts and diverse award-winning staff. The Libraries plays a significant leadership role regionally as a member in the groundbreaking Orbis Cascade Alliance and throughout the profession as evidenced by the number of its staff selected for competitive leadership programs and honored by professional association lifetime achievement awards.THE MATHEMATICS RESEARCH LIBRARYThe Mathematics Research Library is one of eight branch libraries on the Seattle campus. The Mathematics Research Library provides virtual and on-site research support and access to materials inÌ_Applied Mathematics,Ì_Mathematics, andÌ_Statistics. The Physics, Astronomy and Mathematics Librarian and Head, Mathematics Research Library reports to the Acting Head, Branch Libraries and is a member of the Branch Libraries' management team. THE POSITIONThe University of Washington Libraries seeks an enthusiastic librarian committed to providing excellent reference services, research consultations, outreach, instruction services, and collection development for the departments of Physics, Astronomy, Applied Mathematics, Mathematics and Statistics. As Head, Mathematics Research Library this position is also responsible for the overall management of the library, its programs and services, for building the collections and for supervising the staff.SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES:* Serves as librarian for Astronomy, Physics, Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, and Statistics, and is responsible for outreach to students and faculty in these areas, ensuring that they are provided with high quality collection development, reference and research assistance, instruction, and other appropriate services and support as described in the UW Libraries' Subject Librarian Position Description Framework.  * Provides leadership and direction for the Mathematics Research Library. Establishes policies, programs and services within the context of the University of Washington Libraries' current priorities, objectives, and user needs. Develops long-range and short-term plans to implement programs and services.* Participates in the University Libraries virtual reference service.* Participates in the University Libraries' Science Teaching Community.* Develops and maintains LibGuide class and research guides and other materials for Physics, Astronomy, Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, and Statistics.* Supervises Library Technician Lead and is responsible for smooth operation of the Mathematics Research Library. Contributes to and supports operational success in the unit.* Has primary responsibility for creation and maintenance of the Mathematics Research Library web pages.* Using the Libraries' Personal Communication Responsibility Guidelines, communicates effectively and positively with coworkers, supervisors and supervisees.* Contributes to the development of Libraries policies, programs and services and to the achievement of Libraries objectives.* Assumes other responsibilities as assigned; performs other duties as required.QUALIFICATIONS:Required:* Graduate degree from a program accredited by the American Library Association or an equivalent graduate library science/information studies degree.* Minimum of one year of experience working in public services in an academic library.* Experience in providing information literacy instruction or other instruction experience.* Collection development and management experience in an academic library.* Evidence of ability to work independently and with others in a demanding and rapidly changing environment where consultation, collaboration, and cooperation are essential.* Demonstrated excellent interpersonal skills evidenced by the ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with colleagues, faculty, staff, and students; evidence of strong written and oral communication skills* Evidence of initiative and resourcefulness in past professional or academic activities.* Evidence of a strong customer service focus and a passion for providing excellent reference and information services to users* Demonstrated commitment to diversity and understanding of the contributions a diverse workforce brings to the workplace.Preferred:* Undergraduate or graduate degree in Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Statistics, Physics, or Astronomy. SALARY	$48,000 minimum. Starting salary commensurate with qualifications and background.RANK	Position will be at rank of Assistant or Senior Assistant Librarian, depending on qualifications and background.BENEFITS	Librarians are academic personnel and participate in the University of Washington Retirement Plan on a matching basis. Vacation is accrued at the rate of 24 working days per year; sick leave at the rate of 12 working days per year. No state or local income tax.APPLICATION PROCESS:To apply for this position, please submit the following information to libhr@uw.edu:* Cover letter (addressed to Laura Lillard, Academic Human Resources Librarian)* Curriculum vitae or resume (include a telephone number, mailing address, email address and salary requirements)* List of three references who are knowledgeable of your qualifications for this position, one of which must be your current supervisor (include telephone numbers, mailing addresses, and email addresses)* Please use ""Librarian Application"" in the subject heading.* Please submit all three components in a single, multi-page PDF document. All submissions will be maintained in a secure, password protected online file space until interviews are conducted. Then, some application materials will be circulated.APPLICATION DEADLINE:To ensure consideration, applications should be received no later than January 30, 2015.University of Washington Libraries Home Page is http://www.lib.washington.eduThe Mathematics Research Library Home Page is http://www.lib.washington.edu/mathThe University of Washington is an affirmative action and equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to, among other things, race, religion, color, national origin, sex, age, status as protected veterans, or status as qualified individuals with disabilities.In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the University is required to verify and document the citizenship or employment authorization of each new employee. For questions about this position, or questions regarding potential disability accommodations, please contact Laura Lillard at libhr@uw.edu."
