12/5/2014

"Visiting Reference Librarian and Visiting Assistant ProfessorUniversity LibraryUniversity of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignPosition Available: The expected start date is as soon as possible after the closing date.  This is a 100%-time, twelve-month, limited term appointment.  The position may become permanent at a later date.Duties and Responsibilities: The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign seeks a highly-motivated individual to provide reference and research services and supervise, train, and mentor twelve Graduate Assistants (approximately 4 FTE). This position requires a diverse set of skills encompassing the development, provision, evaluation and marketing of services to support reference in an academic environment; the use of instructional technology; and the ability to learn and adapt to rapidly changing technologies. The individual selected for this position will have experience in, and enthusiasm for, providing a wide range of services directly to library users utilizing a variety of in-person and online methods.Applicants should enjoy challenges and be able to handle fluid situations. Individuals must be self-directed and also be able to work effectively in a team environment.  Reporting to the Head of Reference, Research, and Scholarly Services (RRSS), the Visiting Reference Librarian is responsible for supervising Graduate Assistants (GAs) in RRSS and providing direct reference services to users in person, via telephone, and online. Evening and weekend hours required. S/he provides individual, classroom, and group instruction in academic library research strategies and information literacy skill development.Environment: The University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign is one of the preeminent research libraries in the world. With more than 13 million volumes and significant digital resources, it ranks second in size among academic research libraries in the United States and first among public university libraries in the world. As the intellectual heart of the campus, the Library is committed to maintaining the strongest possible collections and services and engaging in research and development activities in pursuit of the University's mission of teaching, scholarship, and public service. The Library currently employs approximately 90 faculty and 300 academic professionals, staff, and graduate assistants. For more detailed information, please visit .  The Library consists of multiple departmental libraries located across campus, as well as an array of central public, technical, and administrative service units. The Library also encompasses a variety of virtual service points and Òembedded librarianÓ programs.Salary and Rank: Salary commensurate with credentials and experience.  Terms of Appointment: Twelve-month appointment; 24 annual vacation days; 11 annual paid holidays; 12 annual sick-leave days (cumulative), plus an additional 13 sick-leave days (non-cumulative) available, if needed, each year; health insurance requiring a small co-payment is provided to employee (with the option to purchase coverage for spouse and dependents); required participation in State Universities Retirement System (SURS) (8% of annual salary is withheld and is refundable upon termination), with several options for participation in additional retirement plans; newly-hired employees are covered by the Medicare portion of Social Security and are subject to its deduction.Campus and Community:  The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a comprehensive and major public land-grant university (Doctoral/Research University-Extensive) that is ranked among the best in the world. Chartered in 1867, it provides undergraduate and graduate education in more than 150 fields of study, conducts theoretical and applied research, and provides public service to the state and the nation. It employs 3,000 faculty members who serve 31,000 undergraduates and 12,000 graduate and professional students; approximately 25% of faculty receives campus-wide recognition each year for excellence in teaching. More information about the campus is available at www.illinois.edu. The University is located in the twin cities of Champaign and Urbana, which have a combined population of 100,000 and are situated about 140 miles south of Chicago, 120 miles west of Indianapolis, and 170 northeast of St. Louis. The University and its surrounding communities offer a cultural and recreational environment ideally suited to the work of a major research institution. For more information about the community, visit:  or .To Apply:  To ensure full consideration, please complete your candidate profile at https://jobs.illinois.edu and upload a letter of interest, resume, and contact information including email addresses for three professional references. Applications not submitted through this website will not be considered. For questions, please call: 217-333-8169.Deadline:  In order to ensure full consideration we urge candidates to submit application materials on or before January 16, 2015.Illinois is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, religion, color, national origin, sex, age, status as a protected veteran, or status as a qualified individual with a disability. Illinois welcomes individuals with diverse backgrounds, experiences, and ideas who embrace and value diversity and inclusivity.  (www.inclusiveillinois.illinois.edu"

"Qualifications:  Required: Master's degree from an ALA-accredited library school or equivalent by start of employment; Experience providing reference services at a public service desk in an academic environment; Experience leading large group instruction; Track record of collaboration and positive contributions in a team environment; Demonstrated commitment to excellence in customer service; Experience working with diverse populations; Excellent communication skills. Preferred: Supervisory experience; Formal classroom teaching experience; Experience training faculty, students and/or staff in professional development workshops; Experience developing Web content; Experience developing online instructional materials and/or learning objects; Knowledge of emerging technologies and their application to library services; Evidence of professional development, research, and/or service activities."

"Collection Development,Project Management,Reference Services,Web Development/Design,Web Services"

"Specific responsibilities include: Provide reference services both online and in person, through a variety of service points and consultations; Supervise, train, and evaluate RRSS GAs, and coordinate GA project portfolios; Coordinate the development and maintenance of professional-level instructional materials including RRSS LibGuides and Help pages that assist users with the research process; Develop and teach instruction sessions, including workshops for the Library's Savvy Researcher instruction series; Monitor and provide ongoing quality review of in-person and online reference services; Provide group and individual reference training and professional development sessions, and identify areas for development of same; Serve on Library- and Campus-wide committees, task forces, and working groups; Other duties as assigned depending on background, experience, interest and emerging needs in RRSS and the University Library."
