12/15/2014

"* Love to connect clinicians with the right information?* Want to join an innovative and academically diverse staff in a rewarding work environment?* Embrace a work culture that celebrates team spirit, flexibility, personal growth and a sense of humor?* Want to live in a place where you can ski in the morning and go to the theater that evening?The University of Colorado Denver Health Sciences Library hslibrary.ucdenver.edu seeks resourceful, energetic and innovative candidates to fill a new position as Clinical Librarian, a non-tenure-track faculty position that primarily collaborates with and lends support to clinicians on the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus (CU Anschutz) and at University of Colorado Hospital (UCH). The successful candidate will assist in the planning, coordination, and promotion of the library's resources and programs to clinical departments, graduate medical education, and individual clinical professionals, trainees, and students within the CU Anschutz and UCH.The CU Anschutz includes the Schools of Medicine, Pharmacy, and Dental Medicine, Public Health, the College of Nursing, the Graduate School, and the University of Colorado Hospital. Our $35 million, state-of-the-art library is the physical and digital hub of knowledge on the campus. The Health Sciences Library provides the largest collection of health sciences information resources in Colorado. Go to hslibrary.ucdenver.edu/about/mission-values-goals to read about the Library's Mission, Vision, and Values.Come live at the foot of the Rocky Mountains. The greater Denver area has a variety of museums, all major sports teams, hiking trails, theaters, restaurants, and nearly 300 days of sunshine a year. Enjoy the feeling of a small town with all the amenities of a big city."





"SUMMARY OF RESPONSIBILITIESThe Clinical Librarian collaborates with and lends support to clinical departments, graduate medical education, and individual clinical professionals, trainees, and students within the CU Anschutz and UCH, and is pivotal to defining and expanding the Library's role in supporting the clinical mission of the university. With a demonstrated understanding of the work of the clinical enterprise, the Clinical Librarian develops and provides training and professional library services in the use of clinical knowledge management, information and data resources, and supports clinical research and data management. This position will work both as a team member and independently. The Clinical Librarian may also provide database searches and support for CU Anschutz family practitioners affiliated with the Family Physicians Inquiries Network (FPIN) program."
