3/21/2013

"Would you like to work at a private, not-for-profit university that supports a fully-integrated information literacy instruction program?  Are you interested in collaborating with faculty to create innovative, outcomes-based curricula that meets the needs of students and faculty whenever and wherever they are learning and teaching?City University of Seattle Library is seeking a full-time librarian to join its instruction team and participate in the course integration and development of instructional materials that support CityU's Academic Model and the university's learning goals.City University of Seattle Library prides itself on:*   A positive, team-oriented workplace;*   Collaboration across university departments and locations world-wide;*   Supporting the University's mission to change lives for good by offering high quality and relevant lifelong education to anyone with a desire to learn.This position reports to the Director of Library Services and requires some evening and weekend hours.To learn more about City University of Seattle, please visit our website at http://www.cityu.edu.To learn more about this position and to apply online, visit our website at http://www.cityu.edu/about/resources/current_opportunities.aspx. City University of Seattle is continuously working to build a diverse faculty and staff and strongly encourages inquiries from all qualified individuals interested in becoming part of the City University of Seattle team (Equal Opportunity Employer)."

"ALA-accredited master's degree in library or information science or the foreign equivalent. Minimum of two years of related professional experience. Experience in providing reference services in an academic environment. Experience in the design and delivery of instruction, preferably in an online environment; knowledge of current trends in information literacy instruction. Experience with collection maintenance and development. Excellent organizational, planning, interpersonal, presentation and communication skills. Ability to work both independently and collaboratively within groups. Proficient with basic MS Office tools."
