1/5/2015

"The College of Charleston Libraries seeks an innovative, collaborative, and service-oriented librarian to deliver curriculum-driven information literacy instruction in the changing technological environment of our academic library. Reporting to the Head of Reference Services in Addlestone Library, the librarian in this position will provide reference services both face-to-face and online; deliver course-related instruction on and off campus; develop research guides and instructional materials; collaborate with academic departments as a library liaison; and conduct research consultations and design and create pedagogically rich tools and experiences that enhance critical thinking, promote information literacy, and foster lifelong learning.Ideally, employment will begin July 1, 2015. Review of applications will begin after February 13, 2015."

"Qualifications, Required* Graduate degree in Library & Information Science (M.L.S. or equivalent) from an ALA-accredited program* Strong public service orientation with an aptitude for providing online and face to face information literacy instruction and reference services in an academic library* Excellent interpersonal, presentation, and instructional technology skills* Commitment to professional development and the ability to meet the research, teaching, service, and professional competency requirements for tenure and promotion advancement* Some evening and/or weekend work is requiredQualifications, Preferred* Experience evaluating, selecting, and implementing instructional technologies in an academic library setting as well as knowledge of current issues and trends in pedagogy is preferred."



"Instruction and Engagement with Students and Faculty 70%* Teaches a library research course both in person and online, provides library and technology related instruction in courses throughout the curriculum, and conducts research consultations with students and faculty.* Works collaboratively with faculty to develop, teach, and assess student information literacy skills and to build collections that support teaching, learning, and scholarship.* Plays an integral role in virtual library instruction including innovative instructional support, creating research guides, accessing learning management software, and using other online and mobile learning tools such as iPad apps, new media production tools, and geospatial/data visualization information systems.* Serves as library liaison to academic departments.Research and Computing Services 20%* Assists patrons with basic research and computing services at the Information Desk (approximately 4-5 hours per week which may include nights & weekends) through chat, text, email, phone, and face to face interaction.Library and College Affairs 10%* Undertakes research and/or professional development related to professional and scholarly interests* Serves on library, College and professional committees, elected and assigned"
