1/5/2015

"Murphy Library at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse is seeking a creative and savvy librarian to provide leadership in shaping an information literacy program. The successful candidate will be passionate about student learning. Responsibilities include:* Design and develop creative and innovative activities to enhance critical thinking and information literacy on campus.* Play a major role in conducting information literacy instruction sessions* Collaborate with the Instructional Technology Librarian in the development and implementation of a comprehensive information literacy program.* Coordinate and support information literacy instruction activities in collaboration with the reference and instruction team and the library department.* Participate in reference services and collection development in assigned subjects* Participate in collegial governance, and campus and professional activitiesThe library recognizes and values diversity in its faculty, staff, and students. We seek a colleague who shares the library's commitment to diversity and who will be a dedicated librarian and mentor for students with diverse backgrounds, preparation, and career goals.Murphy Library is integral to student success at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse. Located in the heart of campus, the library provides a dynamic and diverse learning environment centered on the core principles of service, stewardship, information literacy and equity of access. Librarians have faculty status and are members of the library department, which is a peer-reviewed academic department. Murphy Library is administered by the library director who functions as an academic dean."

"Required qualifications:ALA-accredited MLS/MLIS or equivalent international degree in library or information science.Demonstrated information literacy teaching experience in the classroom.Degrees from international institutions will be accepted under the following conditions:a. The degree has been recognized by the ALA as equivalent, or;b. The degree has been evaluated at the candidate's expense by a U.S. credentialing service recommended by the ALA and sent to the Search & Screen chair by January 16, 2015.Preferred qualifications:Professional experience working in an academic library environment.Demonstrated ability to guide and advance an information literacy program based on best practices, tools, and emerging trends.Understanding of and commitment to information literacy assessment methods.Excellent interpersonal, oral, and written communication skills, including the ability to effectively collaborate with faculty/staff, colleagues, and students.Interest in working in a peer-governed academic department.Evidence of professional growth potential through publication, professional activities, or other contributions to the field."
