1/15/2015

"Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth in New Haven, Connecticut.  Conveniently located between Boston and New York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural resources that include two major art museums, a critically-acclaimed repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.Position Focus:  Reporting to the Director for International Collections & Research Support, the Librarian for Slavic & East European Studies supports a multi-disciplinary academic program through provision of research support, liaison, and collection development services. In a collaborative arrangement between Yale and Brown University Libraries, s/he also provides these services for Brown, through both in-person visits and virtual communication. The librarian is a Yale University Library employee, subject to Yale personnel policies, based at Yale. The position will require on-site services at Brown up to two working days per academic semester. As the subject specialist responsible for support of Slavic and East European studies, the librarian develops strong working relationships with faculty, students, and affiliated researchers across departments and programs at both institutions, taking initiative to identify and meet their expectations for collections and services. S/he provides reference and research consultations, maintains online research guides, and conducts library instruction sessions. S/he seeks ways to collaborate with colleagues, nationally and internationally, to leverage access to resources for local library users. S/he tracks use of research services and undertakes periodic assessment of service quality. The librarian is responsible for selection of materials in all formats for Slavic and East European imprints, fund management, and collection budget requests. S/he may also monitor and/or manage funds for acquisition of subject-related materials published outside of the imprint area. Collection development responsibilities include approval plan management, initiation of firm-order requests, serials management, gift selection, and electronic resource acquisition. In support of the University Library public services mission, the Librarian for Slavic & East European Studies participates in reference, research education, and outreach activities for library patrons, such as instruction in the use of citation management software and other productivity tools and library orientations and tours. The librarian contributes to departmental strategic planning and seeks opportunities to contribute to the overall mission of the library. S/he participates in library committees, task forces, and programs. S/he is active professionally through service in relevant library organizations, research and publishing, or other means.Required Education, Skills and Experience:  *	Master's degree from an ALA-accredited library school and an advanced degree in a field related to the study of the relevant world area or an advanced degree in the study of the world area and relevant library experience.*	Qualified individuals new to the library profession are welcome to apply.*	Knowledge of current trends in scholarly research related to Slavic and East European studies.*	Excellent communications skills (reading, writing, speaking) in Russian.*	Familiarity with major bibliographic tools (printed and electronic) and research methods for Slavic and East European studies.*	Ability to travel to Providence, RI, to provide services at Brown University up to two days per academic semester.Yale University assigns ranks to librarian positions based on a combination of professional experience and accomplishments (see range assigned to this description as noted in the posting position title). Librarian ranking information can be found at: http://www.library.yale.edu/about/departments/lhr/rank.html.Preferred Education, Skills and Experience:  Ph.D. Academic focus in a field of Russian studies. Excellent reading knowledge of Polish and additional Slavic and East European languages. Experience teaching in a library or academic setting. Experience creating web content. Knowledge of citation management and electronic text management software.The University and the LibraryThe Yale University Library, as one of the world's leading research libraries, collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to and services for a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity. It fosters intellectual growth and supports the teaching and research missions of Yale University and scholarly communities worldwide. A distinctive strength is its rich spectrum of resources, including around 12.8 million volumes and information in all media, ranging from ancient papyri to early printed books to electronic databases. The Library is engaging in numerous projects to expand access to its physical and digital collections. Housed in eighteen buildings including the Sterling Memorial Library, the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, and the Bass Library, it employs a dynamic and diverse staff of approximately five hundred who offer innovative and flexible services to library readers.  For additional information on the Yale University Library, please visit the Library's web site at www.library.yale.edu. Salary and Benefits:We invite you to discover the excitement, diversity, rewards and excellence of a career at Yale University. One of the country's great workplaces, Yale University offers exciting opportunities for meaningful accomplishment and true growth. Our benefits package is among the best anywhere, with a wide variety of insurance choices, liberal paid time off, fantastic family and educational benefits, a variety of retirement benefits, extensive recreational facilities, and much more.How to apply:  Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled.  Applications, consisting of a cover letter, resume, and the names and contact information of three professional references should be submitted by applying online at http://www.yale.edu/jobs. The STARS req. ID for this position is 28699BR.  Please be sure to reference 28699BR in your cover letter. Yale University considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of an individual's sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression."
