1/22/2015

"The Library at Shippensburg University invites applications for a tenure-track faculty librarian, starting in August 2015, who will serve as the STEM Librarian. This full-time faculty librarian position holds several primary areas of responsibility. These include taking a leadership role in the development of relationships between the university library and faculty in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics disciplines; developing and delivering a range of innovative library services that facilitate the curricular and research needs of students and faculty in STEM disciplines; providing beginning through advanced level support for searching scientific databases; providing assistance to students in developing excellent skills in scholarly communication in the sciences; providing high-level assistance with core data management tools (i.e. Excel, SPSS) as well as basic support for more specialized tools (i.e. Mathematica, MATLAB, R, etc.); taking a leadership role in the promotion and support of original undergraduate research, particularly in the sciences; and maintaining general librarian responsibilities including participation in strategic planning, reference services, and library instructional services to university students, faculty, and staff.Based on her/his skill set and the needs of the library, the incumbent will serve on library and university committees and taskforces and will be assigned additional library responsibilities."

"Minimum:Candidates must hold a master's degree in library science from an A.L.A. accredited program; additionally, a second masters or doctorate degree is required (all degrees to be completed no later than June 2015). The candidate must have a graduate or undergraduate degree in a STEM discipline (science [natural, physical, or computer], technology, engineering, or mathematics). The candidate must have excellent customer service orientation and skills, a high level of comfort and proficiency with technology, academic library experience, reference and library instruction experience, knowledge and expertise with relevant reference databases and resources, experience with scientific writing and knowledge and understanding of what it means to write scientifically, awareness of technology issues, and knowledge of assessment of library services.Preferred:Highly desirable qualifications include a graduate degree in a STEM discipline; substantial understanding of current trends, issues, and standards used in an academic environment; knowledge and experience using statistical, reporting, or data graphing software such as Veusz, Mathematica, MATLAB, SPSS, NVivo, SAS, Liseral, R, etc.,; and familiarity with computer programming skills. As part of a successful on-campus interview process, selected candidates will be expected to provide a demonstration of teaching effectiveness and evidence of understanding diverse populations."
