1/29/2015

"Nevada State College invites applications for an Instructional Design Librarian. This position reports to the Director of Library Services and will join the College during an exciting period of growth and development.The Instructional Design Librarian provides leadership for the integration of scalable and sustainable information literacy initiatives into the curriculum.The ideal candidate will be inspired by:*	The chance to work at an institution that has a laser-like focus on creating successful outcomes for students from largely under-served, first generation, and non-traditional backgrounds.*	The opportunity to work in an environment that embraces innovation and experimentation.*	The prospect of working in an environment in which assessment and evidence drive institutional improvement and innovation."

"Minimum Qualifications:Please address each of these qualifications in your application materials.*	ALA-accredited Master's degree or equivalent.*	Commitment to improving success in higher education for first-generation and under-represented students.*	Familiarity with contemporary theories, models, and best practices associated with information literacy.*	Ability to initiate and exploit opportunities for integrating library services into the college curriculum.*	Commitment to professional reflection and improvement.*	Ability to use analytic methods to pose and answer research questions that lead to improved practice.*	Excellent oral and written communication skills.Preferred Qualifications:*	At least two years of professional academic library experience with information literacy instruction*	Advanced degree or certificate in Instructional Design, Instructional Technologies, Educational Technologies or equivalent. *	Experience collaborating with instructors to develop learning outcomes, learning activities, and learning assessments.    *	Experience marketing information products and services.*	Experience conducting student learning outcomes assessment. *	Experience creating digital learning objects."



"*	Consults and collaborates with full-time and part-time teaching faculty to integrate information literacy learning outcomes, assignments, learning activities, and learning assessments into in-person, hybrid and online courses. (30%)*	Works collaboratively with campus stakeholders to integrate library resources, services, and other tools into the curriculum. (20%)*	Creates and maintains a repository of reusable learning objects. (20%)*	Provides training and oversight for peer research advisors. (10%)*	Creates scholarly products; actively participates in committees, professional engagement or service; and meets other NSC requirements for promotion and tenure. (20%)"
