2/2/2015

"Emory University Libraries & Information Technology Division announces the Librarian Fellows Program for 2015. We invite applications from graduates with master's degrees in information studies or library/information science awarded between May 2014 and June 2015. Fellows will be appointed to two-year term positions with start dates that may occur between summer and early fall 2015.Fellows in this program are able to develop expertise, leadership and project management skills in placements related to the libraries' three strategic goal areas:* Digital Innovations - in services, resources and scholarship;* Special Collections - featuring services and resources for research and teaching in modern literature, African American history and culture, southern history and culture; and* Customer-centered Library - creating distinctive research environments that integrate print and digital resources and enable connections among users, communities, resources, and tools.The Fellows Program will be the first professional position for a new graduate. The framework for the Fellow for this term will be to work as a member of a primary work team and will also have opportunities to work on special projects and initiatives in areas related to the primary area. A range of special projects and initiatives are underway and will provide the Fellows with opportunities to learn about and contribute to new developments in research library services. The work assignments for the 2015-2017 Fellow will be focused on a new comprehensive digital library program."

"Qualifications: In addition to a master's degree in information studies or library/information science awarded between May 2014 and June 2015, we seek candidates who: demonstrate an understanding of and interest in the mission of academic libraries; articulate special interest in and foundation for gaining expertise in the primary work assignment; demonstrate evidence of self-directed learning and adaptability; show commitment to professional growth; demonstrate entrepreneurial and risk taking aptitude; are adept in use of technologies; have strong analytical skills; are adept at working in teams and independently; communicate effectively (verbal, written and graphical) and have excellent interpersonal skills; and show potential for leadership. Applicants must be eligible to work immediately in the U.S. for a two-year period. Experience in data management, digital libraries and/or preservation preferred."



"The Library is deploying the Hydra repository solution as part of a larger, evolving digital library program. Under the guidance/supervision of the Manager, Library Core Services and the Director of the Content Division, the fellow will analyze current business practices, perform peer benchmarking, and recommend repository policies and practices for acquiring, describing, publishing, and preserving content. The fellow will work with a team of repository stakeholders from many areas of the Libraries and IT Services (LITS), including library systems, software development, metadata specialists, digitization, special collections, digital scholarship, and scholarly communications."
