2/2/2015

"Christopher Center Library Services and Valparaiso University are committed to fostering a diverse student body and faculty. We are pleased to announce an open position for the 2015-17 Library Fellow, one of our two faculty positions created to provide the opportunity for entry-level librarians, who demonstrate a commitment to diverse and historically underrepresented groups while gaining professional experience as an academic librarian. Newly-degreed librarians are welcomed and strongly encouraged to apply.As a member of the University faculty, the Library Fellow should be interested in working at a university engaged with issues in Christian higher education and the Lutheran tradition. She or he will also demonstrate a commitment to cultural diversity and the ability to work with individuals or groups from diverse backgrounds. The Library Fellow will benefit from immediate opportunities in scholarly and professional development, faculty governance of the library, library policy creation, and service on library and campus committees and task forces. Current library faculty are engaged in a wide range of professional and campus-related activities, from embedded librarianship to scholarly communication initiatives, from writing-across-the-curriculum programming to changing service models, and welcome a new colleague's interests and insights."

"Required QualificationsA candidate must identify her/himself within the context of diversity as defined in Valparaiso University's ÒStatement of Philosophy on Diversity.ÓAdditionally, a candidate will provide evidence of    an ALA-accredited Master's Degree, or equivalent, by the time of appointment;    a distinct interest in academic librarianship;    a demonstrable commitment to diversity;    strong communication skills;    an engagement with teaching and student success; and    the capability to work both independently and collaboratively in the team environment.A candidate must also be authorized to work in the United States for the full duration of the program. Preferred QualificationsAdditional qualifications are valued, including but not limited to    a degree or background in a scientific discipline;    experience with current and emerging technologies;    a proactive attitude in work with library colleagues and patrons; or    fluency in a second language."



"The program is designed for a two-year commitment. During the first year, the librarian will gain meaningful, introductory work experience within the library's centralized Library Research Services Department, encompassing information literacy, digital learning materials, programming, marketing, outreach, assessment, and access services. In consultation with the Director of Library Research Services, and other librarians as appropriate, the Library Fellow will begin to develop an original research project, one which can be conducted during the fellowship, culminating in a presentation or peer-reviewed publication. Also across both years, the Library Fellow will have the opportunity to partner with another librarian as a subject liaison to an academic program. Liaison work includes providing specialized student information literacy instruction and consultation, collaborating with disciplinary faculty, and working with collections and information resources in specific subject areas."
