4/5/2013

"Position AnnouncementReference & Instruction LibrarianThe Utah State University Libraries seek a creative, energetic librarian to join the Reference & Instructional Services Department in the Merrill-Cazier Library to perform reference, instruction, and collection development duties.  We welcome talented librarians with diverse skills, backgrounds, and creative approaches to their work.  Our library fosters strong communication and productive collaboration, and is seeking applicants who welcome the opportunity of working in an environment of change and who have the ability to inspire others.  The position is a 12-month, tenure-track, faculty appointment with rank of assistant librarian, reporting to the Head of Reference Services.ResponsibilitiesPrimary responsibilities in this position are to provide reference service and library instruction, with emphasis on English composition and specialized instruction for liaison departments.  The library contributes to information literacy initiatives by collaborating with colleagues to develop teaching strategies, assessment methods, and Web-based instructional tools.  Reference service involves working with students and faculty in a wide range of subjects, including evening and weekend reference desk shifts and individual consultations.  The librarian serves as a subject librarian in one or more academic disciplines.  Liaison duties include purchasing materials within an allocated budget, working with faculty to develop course-integrated instruction, and providing research support.  The librarian plays a role in overall library functions, serves on library and university committees, and pursues professional and scholarly endeavors related to the position.QualificationsRequired qualifications:  ALA accredited MLS degree; excellent verbal and written communication skills; effective interpersonal skills; knowledge of emerging technologies for access to information resources; strong public service orientation; and demonstrated ability to meet the university's requirements for promotion and tenure.  Preferred qualifications:  reference and collection development experience in an academic library; course work or experience with information literacy instruction, familiarity with instructional design or online learning.Salary and BenefitsMinimum salary is $36,500 and includes an excellent benefits package, with generous contribution to TIAA/CREF retirement, 22 days vacation, 12 days of sick leave each year, reduced tuition of 50% for employee and dependents, and much more. See: http://www.usu.edu/hr/ for a full list of benefits.  Utah State University is a multi-campus land-grant institution serving a student population of 29,000. The main campus is situated in the beautiful Cache Valley 80 miles north of Salt Lake City and offers an affordable cost of living and a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities with access to many national parks and ski resorts. The university is a place of diverse thought, with first-rate cultural offerings provided by talented members of the university community and visiting artists and researchers.  Application InstructionsReview of applications will begin May 8, 2013.  To apply, visit: http://jobs.usu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=58604"

"QualificationsRequired qualifications:  ALA accredited MLS degree; excellent verbal and written communication skills; effective interpersonal skills; knowledge of emerging technologies for access to information resources; strong public service orientation; and demonstrated ability to meet the university's requirements for promotion and tenure.  Preferred qualifications:  reference and collection development experience in an academic library; course work or experience with information literacy instruction, familiarity with instructional design or online learning."
