2/7/2015

"The Reference Librarian is responsible for the library instruction program, all reference activities, collection development, and the maintenance of the integrated library system and the library website.  The Reference Librarian serves as acting director in the absence of the Library Director.  As a member of the faculty, the Reference Librarian serves on various college committees and represents the library at appropriate local, state or national meetings."

"MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:     Master's degree in library science, or library and information science OR    Possession of a current California Community College Credential that permits full-time service as an instructor in the applicable discipline. OR    The equivalent.(Applicants wishing to be considered for employment under District equivalency standards must submit a detailed statement explaining how you possess the equivalent to the minimum qualifications discussed above.)DIVERSITY QUALIFICATIONS:    Sensitivity to and understanding of the diverse academic, socioeconomic, cultural, disability, gender identity and sexual orientation and ethnic backgrounds of community college students.DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:    Experiences and/or training, which have influenced or prepared you to work cooperatively with and support individuals from diverse backgrounds. For example: involvement within specific programs; courses; directed study; or participation in groups and organizations, etc. that cultivate diversity.    Experience working in Community College Libraries, with an emphasis on reference services, collection development and library instruction.    Knowledge of LC cataloging, library automation systems and HTML.    Current awareness of trends in library services and distance learning in higher education.    Strong interest in, and knowledge of, the use of technology in information delivery and library services."



"In addition to the responsibilities of the classification description, the specific position is also responsible for:    Provide reference service (in-person, telephone, email and web-based Live chat) to students, faculty and staff.    Schedule and provide library instruction and orientation through class presentations, workshops and web-based instruction.    Teach courses on library and information skills.     Promote library services and resources to students and staff via outreach, multi-media displays, and presentations.    Obtain and organize statistical data to fulfill required institutional reporting.    Design and conduct service assessments and surveys.    Coordinate and oversee Library newsletter publication.    Develop and revise library policies and procedures.    Select materials for collection development according to specific curriculum needs and serve as a library liaison with other faculty.    Participate in budget development, long- and short-term goals, grant writing, strategic planning, and program evaluation and reporting.    Provide assistance in the cataloging and bibliographic management of Library materials in various formats.    Provide assistance in selecting, evaluating and implementing electronic resources, databases, computer applications and other information systems.    Manage integrated library system and maintain Library website; develop and manage all electronic resources and services; act as liaison with IT department and external vendors.    Provide leadership and coordination for Library's instruction program; work with colleagues to determine appropriate ways to infuse information literacy across curriculum and to diverse learners.    Work closely with IT staff and other departments in the design of innovative multimedia and web-based instruction modules.    Perform other duties as assigned."
