2/18/2015

"This is a full-time, tenure track faculty position in the Library at North Seattle College (NSC) beginning Fall Quarter 2015. As a member of a strong collaborative library team, the person shares responsibility in developing and implementing library instruction, collections, and services to meet the information needs of a diverse community of learners and educators. The position delivers reference and instruction services, and maintains liaison relationships with academic divisions as assigned. Successful applicants must be able to work effectively in a complex, changing environment which includes diverse populations with a positive, flexible and innovative attitude. It helps to have a sense of humor.To be considered for this position, the following items must be included in your application.  Applicants who do not complete and submit all required materials will not be considered for this position. Application packet includes:    A current resume.    A letter of application detailing education and experience as related to the position.    The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of three professional references.    Evidence of graduate degree and Librarian certificate.    A cultural competency statement: Describe and provide in one to two pages examples of your skills in working with diverse populations, such as racial, ethnic, religious, linguistic, gender, age, sexual orientation, and socio-economic status, and with diverse physical and learning disabilities.Seattle Colleges are committed to recruiting dedicated faculty and staff who together create a welcoming academic climate that reflects the diverse backgrounds of our community, including ethnicity, national origin, religion, race, gender, gender identity, age, status as a veteran or disabled veteran, disability, political status, and sexual orientation."

"REQUIRED:    Master's degree in Library and Information Science from an ALA accredited university.    Two years of academic library experience or equivalent experience.    Demonstrated effectiveness in working with and furthering the educational development of persons from diverse backgrounds.    Excellent communication skills.    Demonstrated ability to work well with others in a team environment.    Involvement in professional library activities beyond the college.    Strong technology background.PREFERRED:    Experience in an academic library in community colleges.    Familiarity or experience with the needs of a baccalaureate program in the STEM disciplines.    Familiarity with International Student programs.    Demonstrated experience and/or knowledge in instruction of classes in Information Literacy.    Educational and/or professional background in the STEM disciplines.      Experience collaborating with faculty developing assignments involving Library research.    Experience with the LibGuides platform."

"Collection Development,Education,Reference Services"

"    Provides reference services.    Designs and delivers credit-bearing instruction online and in the classroom.    Conducts information literacy workshops for students and campus staff and faculty.    Serves as liaison to Sciences, Technology, Engineering, Math, and Application Development  disciplines and programs at Associate's and Bachelor's Degree levels.    Manages collection development in assigned subject areas with collaboration from faculty.    Participates in the planning and development of Library goals, policies, operations and budget.    Serves on college- and district-wide committees and participates in department, division and college activities.    Demonstrates cultural competency and the ability to communicate and work effectively with people from diverse backgrounds such as racial, ethnic, religious, linguistic, gender, age, sexual orientation, and socio-economic status, and with diverse physical and learning disabilities."
