4/10/2013

"The Henry Madden Library seeks an innovative, dynamic, flexible and team-oriented librarian to join our faculty in developing and providing user-focused library services that support teaching, research, and student success. This full-time, tenure-track librarian will serve as liaison to a number of departments and collaborate with library and campus faculty in the development and provision of a broad range of activities including: information literacy instruction, research support, general and specialized information and instructional services, library digital and scholarly communication initiatives, and collection management. In addition, library faculty are expected to engage in scholarship and service to the University and the profession. This position will provide an excellent opportunity to explore a variety of directions for professional growth and development. Responsibilities include: Participating on teams that actively reach out to and engage designated colleges and departments; developing innovative programs to engage diverse user groups; participating in the development of effective approaches to teaching; designing and preparing instructional and outreach materials; providing in-person and online research assistance in a range of disciplines; participating in faculty governance, administrative committees, and special library projects.Please see the full vacancy announcement or go to http://apptrkr.com/333908 for more information and to apply."

"Academic Preparation: One of the following: American Library Association accredited Master of Information Studies or Science, Master of Information, Master of Librarianship, Master of Libraryand Information Studies, or Master of Art/Master of Science in Library Science or Information Studies.Teaching or other experience: This position requires experience and knowledge to perform the duties of a Public Services Librarian as described above. To be recommended for appointment, candidates must have: Excellent interpersonal, communication, and presentation skills_ significant knowledge of or experience with information literacy and instruction, including the design and delivery ofinstruction using traditional classroom methods and emerging technologies_ strong public service orientation and proficiency in all modes of reference service and research consultation with diverse user groups_ experience in developing outreach programs and services_ demonstrated knowledge of trends in librarianship and scholarly communication_ evidence of initiative, flexibility, and the ability to adapt and work both collaboratively and independently in a complex, constantly changing academic environment_ demonstrated commitment to ongoing professional development_ commitment to working with a diverse population and understanding the Fresno State Diversity Mission Statement(http://www.fresnostate.edu/president/mission/diversitystatement.html). In addition, candidatesmust be able to meet the Retention, Tenure, and Promotion (RTP) requirements(http://www.fresnostate.edu/academics/aps/forms_policies/rtp.html) for scholarship and service to the campus and community.Preference will be given to candidates with some or all of the following: Experienceworking in an academic library_ background or experience in one of the STEM (Science,Technology, Engineering, Math) disciplines_ knowledge and understanding of best practices in pedagogy and information literacy_ experience working with learning management systems_interest and experience in assessment.Other requirements: This position may require the satisfactory completion of a background check. This may include submitting fingerprints to the LiveScan Print Services, and evidence of degree(s) or certification(s) at or prior to the appointment. Please see the full vacancy announcement or go to http://apptrkr.com/333908 for more information and to apply."
