2/20/2015

"Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth in New Haven, Connecticut.  Conveniently located between Boston and New York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural resources that include two major art museums, a critically-acclaimed repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.Position Focus:  Under the direction of the Electronic Resources Librarian, the Electronic Resources Support Librarian focuses on establishing and maintaining strong intellectual control over content throughout the life cycle of electronic resources licensed by Yale University Library (YUL). This position supervises a team of staff responsible for maintaining key e-resource systems and workflows. Within a changing and flexible environment, s/he works closely with colleagues and vendors to manage the acquisition and licensing of new electronic resources as well as the renewal of existing subscriptions. Works collaboratively with other librarians and staff to ensure consistent access to library holdings across multiple platforms including the library's catalog and discovery services. Troubleshoots advanced problem reports. Works closely with the Electronic Resources team and partner departments to ensure efficient access to electronic resources for library users.Required Education, Skills and Experience:*	Master's degree from an ALA_accredited library school. Qualified individuals new to the library profession are welcome to apply. *	Proven understanding of the best practices for managing the records that track electronic purchases, subscriptions, and licenses. Demonstrated ability to apply the principles that guide the organization of bibliographic information to the organization of electronic resources.*	Demonstrated ability working in an integrated library system.*	Conceptual and practical knowledge of the technologies used to manage and access e-resources.*	Excellent oral and written communication skills; demonstrated analytical and organizational skills. Demonstrated ability to work both independently and in a team environment.Yale University assigns ranks to librarian positions based on a combination of professional experience and accomplishments (see range assigned to this description as noted in the posting position title). Librarian ranking information can be found at: http://www.library.yale.edu/about/departments/lhr/rank.html.Preferred Education, Skills and Experience:  Experience working with an electronic resource management tool and an OpenURL resolver, especially ProQuest 360 Suite. Experience troubleshooting e-resource access issues. Knowledge of e-resource licensing. Understanding of access and identity management issues related to the discovery and use of e-resources. Demonstrated ability to effectively supervise and train staff.The University and the LibraryThe Yale University Library, as one of the world's leading research libraries, collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to and services for a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity. It fosters intellectual growth and supports the teaching and research missions of Yale University and scholarly communities worldwide. A distinctive strength is its rich spectrum of resources, including around 12.8 million volumes and information in all media, ranging from ancient papyri to early printed books to electronic databases. The Library is engaging in numerous projects to expand access to its physical and digital collections. Housed in eighteen buildings including the Sterling Memorial Library, the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, and the Bass Library, it employs a dynamic and diverse staff of approximately five hundred who offer innovative and flexible services to library readers.  For additional information on the Yale University Library, please visit the Library's web site at www.library.yale.edu. Salary and Benefits:We invite you to discover the excitement, diversity, rewards and excellence of a career at Yale University. One of the country's great workplaces, Yale University offers exciting opportunities for meaningful accomplishment and true growth. Our benefits package is among the best anywhere, with a wide variety of insurance choices, liberal paid time off, fantastic family and educational benefits, a variety of retirement benefits, extensive recreational facilities, and much more."
