2/24/2015

"The UTC Library seeks a motivated, creative and user-focused professional to fill our Web Services Librarian position at the University of Tennessee, Chattanooga (UTC)."

"The ideal candidate possesses the initiative, flexibility, and creativity to manage projects both independently and as part of a team in a dynamic work environment. The candidate should be able to handle complex, analytical and detailed work while maintaining a positive, change-oriented attitude. Effective writing and oral communication skills and strong interpersonal skills are a must. The candidate should exhibit a strong customer service focus, a passion for the profession, and a deep commitment to the academic community. In addition to the aforementioned attributes, candidate assessment will rely on the strength of the following qualifications:Required    Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program.    Demonstrable experience with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.    Demonstrable experience with common web authoring tools and content management systems.    Knowledge of practices and standards relating to security, usability, accessibility, browser compatibility, and information architecture.Desired    Experience with XML/XSL.    Experience with the LAMP stack.    Familiarity with a web application framework (e.g. Ruby on Rails).    Familiarity with library-specific technologies (e.g. ILS, OpenURL resolvers, web-scale discovery).    Familiarity with the FOSS movement and the ability to leverage it to the benefit of the library."



"Reporting to the Dean of the UTC Library, and working under the direction of the Team Lead for Information Technology, the Web Services Librarian provides support for library web services and other content management systems. As a tenure-track position, the Web Services Librarian holds responsibilities in three core areas:As Web Services Librarian    Iteratively design, develop and maintain content management systems.    Assess and improve patron experience via analytics and usability testing.    Create and maintain appropriate documentation; gather and evaluate relevant statistics.    Support library staff members in the development of digital content.    Enhance cross-platform integration of online resources and services.    Build according to contemporary design, coding and accessibility standards.    Participate in the overall library-computing environment to ensure optimal and consistent operation.    Participate in the acquisition, development, and support of digital collections, tools, services, and applications that facilitate teaching, learning, and research.As Information Technology Team MemberSpecific job duties within the team will vary based on position, but the following responsibilities encompass the broad functional activities of the Information Technology Team Members:    Develop and maintain information technology services in an effective student learning environment.    Provide consultation, support and problem resolution to ensure library software and hardware is functional, interoperable, and serves the ongoing goal of supporting research and teaching.    Guide students, faculty, and staff in use of technology resources.    Partner with campus faculty, staff, and students as a technology leader, facilitator, trainer, designer, and developer of information technology initiatives and projects.    Identify, evaluate, and recommend technologies and resources for campus and library needs.    Maintain computers, hardware, and software delivery and production platforms.    Promote student success and retention through advocacy of use of library services and resources.    Serve as backup to other members of the library's Information Technology Services Team.As Library and University Citizen    Participate in providing reference, liaison, and outreach services to the university community.    Participate in library-wide planning and committee work.    Participate in UTC governance, planning, and service.    Conduct scholarship consistent with a tenure-track appointment.    Engage in continuing professional development."
