3/2/2015

"Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth in New Haven, Connecticut.  Conveniently located between Boston and New York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural resources that include two major art museums, a critically-acclaimed repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.Position Focus:  Reporting to the Associate Director of Public Services at the Center for Science and Social Science Information, the GIS Librarian acquires and provides support in the discovery, use, and management of locally created and externally available GIS data and tools in collaboration with data librarians and subject specialist librarians. The incumbent works with others to develop scalable, sustainable, and domain-appropriate GIS services in support of research at Yale. The Librarian is responsible for providing support for GIS services through reference, research consultations, online help guides, newsletters, and other outreach efforts. The incumbent provides a robust program of GIS instruction and continuously develops workshops and online help materials to keep pace with the latest software versions, online tools, and techniques. The Librarian acts as the primary consultant for the current suite of ESRI software and is responsible, in collaboration with other Library staff, for optimizing functions for discovery and preservation of GIS data and its associated metadata in library catalogs, data archives/repositories, and similar systems. The incumbent provides assistance with global positioning technology hardware and software and may assist with other research support services. The GIS Librarian participates in library-wide committees and workgroups as appropriate and contributes to research support and instruction program planning and implementation in the Map Department, the Center for Science and Social Science Information, and other units of the Library. The GIS Librarian is responsible for staying abreast of the latest updates in GIS accessibility, software, hardware, and analysis techniques and may represent YUL to state, national and international GIS organizations.Qualified individuals new to the library profession are welcome to apply.Required Education, Skills and Experience:  1.	Master's degree from an ALA_accredited library school, or equivalent combination of relevant advanced degree and experience. 2.	Experience working collegially, collaboratively, and independently with varied groups, within and across a complex organization and a rapidly changing, team environment.3.	Demonstrated ability with a variety of geospatial processing software. Demonstrated ability with the array of ESRI ArcGIS software including desktop, server, mobile, and online versions.4.	Demonstrated ability with metadata for geospatial data and cartographic materials.5.	Demonstrated ability to develop and deliver GIS instruction and research support services.6.	Excellent oral and written communication skills; demonstrated analytical and organizational skills. Demonstrated ability to design projects and bring them to a timely conclusion.  Demonstrated ability to work both independently and in a team environment.Yale University assigns ranks to librarian positions based on a combination of professional experience and accomplishments (see range assigned to this description as noted in the posting position title). Librarian ranking information can be found at: http://www.library.yale.edu/about/departments/lhr/rank.html.Preferred Education, Skills and Experience:  A degree in Geography, GIS, or related field. Experience with relational databases and geodatabase management. Experience managing an ESRI site license. Programming or scripting experience for GIS applications. Experience providing research assistance in an academic environment.The University and the LibraryThe Yale University Library, as one of the world's leading research libraries, collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to and services for a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity. It fosters intellectual growth and supports the teaching and research missions of Yale University and scholarly communities worldwide. A distinctive strength is its rich spectrum of resources, including around 12.8 million volumes and information in all media, ranging from ancient papyri to early printed books to electronic databases. The Library is engaging in numerous projects to expand access to its physical and digital collections. Housed in eighteen buildings including the Sterling Memorial Library, the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, and the Bass Library, it employs a dynamic and diverse staff of approximately five hundred who offer innovative and flexible services to library readers.  For additional information on the Yale University Library, please visit the Library's web site at www.library.yale.edu. Salary and Benefits:We invite you to discover the excitement, diversity, rewards and excellence of a career at Yale University. One of the country's great workplaces, Yale University offers exciting opportunities for meaningful accomplishment and true growth. Our benefits package is among the best anywhere, with a wide variety of insurance choices, liberal paid time off, fantastic family and educational benefits, a variety of retirement benefits, extensive recreational facilities, and much more."
