3/16/2015

"American University Library invites early-career librarians to apply for its Resident Librarian Program. The program is a fixed-term appointment of three years and designed to provide an immersion into academic librarianship, an opportunity to explore areas of interest, and funding to support professional engagement at the national level. By participating in the Resident Librarian Program, individuals will demonstrate skills at a professional level, develop a professional network, and be prepared for future career opportunities. This position is available starting Summer 2015.Our Resident Librarian Program is part of a new initiative called the Diversity Alliance. The Resident Librarian will be part of a cohort of librarians established by Diversity Alliance members universities. The purpose of the resident program is to bring diverse entry-level librarians into the profession, engaging them in professional learning and service at American University and, ultimately, preparing them for a career in academic librarianship."

"Candidates must be recent ALA-accredited M.L.S. graduates (within the last two years) or early-career librarians working outside of academic librarianship. General knowledge of print and digital resources, commitment to diversity in the workplace, and ability to work in a team environment are required.  Demonstrated interest in professional development and contribution, and some experience in teaching and library outreach are preferred."



"Provide research and reference assistance services to a diverse user population at a busy research assistance desk, over the Web, and in classes. Teach in the library instruction program, integrate new technologies into the instruction process, and contribute to collection development.  Prepare bibliographic and other reference tools in selected subject areas. Some evening and weekend hours required. The Resident Librarian will be a member of the Research, Teaching and Learning (RTL) Division and report to the AU Library Residency Program Coordinator."
