3/31/2015

"Provide research and library instruction services to Wright State University students, faculty, and staff. Serve as the library liaison to COLA in the areas of English languages and literature, art and art history, modern languages, religion and philosophy."

"A.L.A. accredited M.L.S./M.L.I.S. by June 15, 2015; customer service experience serving a culturally diverse community; demonstrated commitment to teamwork; knowledge of educational technologies and the ability to apply knowledge to the design and delivery of instruction; knowledge of library instructional assessment techniques; strong willingness to promote resources and services to client groups; excellent interpersonal and communication skills; ability to manage time and set priorities, take initiative and produce results; interest in scholarly achievement, professional development and service.Library instruction and/or teaching experience; academic library experience in reference service and library instruction; experience with library instructional assessment; background in humanities; additional master's degree."

"Collection Development,Education,Reference Services"

"40% Library instruction: pursues and participates in library instruction for designated subject areas and general education courses and workshops that support English composition, learning communities and the first year seminar; plans and conducts instruction in classroom, small-group, and non-traditional settings, including off-site or online; develops assessment tools for instructional activities; develops guides and tutorials; promotes course-specific instruction; collaborates with faculty to develop assignments and incorporate new resources into specific classes.25% Reference service: responds to service requests across many disciplines as well as assigned subject areas; provides point-of-use assistance for students, faculty, and other users; provides in-depth reference and consultation assistance in assigned subject areas; participates in evening and weekend reference rotations; performs literature searches; develops online reference guides for the library's website including course specific guides; participates fully in reference department planning, operations, and service delivery.25% Liaison to academic departments: communicates with faculty and staff in assigned subject areas regarding library services, resources, and policies; takes requests for new materials and communicates with collection management librarians for possible addition to the collection; attends academic department meetings; participates in new faculty and staff orientations for academic departments; monitors and participates in departmental listservs; attends other relevant departmental activities. Serves as liaison to the Writing Center.5% Professional Development and Service: participates in professional and educational activities. These include active participation in national and state organizations and regular use of continuing education opportunities provided by those organizations, and by the Reference and Instruction Department, the university, and the University Libraries.5% Participates in the development and the performance of the libraries' programs, policies, procedures, projects, teams and committees, including other duties as assigned."
