4/8/2015

"Rice University is seeking a highly motivated and service_oriented Information Literacy Librarian. Thesuccessful candidate will provide leadership in the development, delivery, evaluation and assessment ofthe library's instruction program. The position is also responsible for collection development in one ormore areas of the humanities and/or social sciences, serves as a liaison to the correspondingdepartments and contributes to reference services. The position reports to the Head of ReferenceServices."

"Required Qualifications:_ALA_accredited Master's degree in Library Science._Undergraduate degree in a humanities or social science discipline._Demonstrated ability to guide and advance an information literacy program based on best practices,tools and emerging trends._Experience with computer and telecommunications technologies for information management andcollaboration._Excellent organizational, interpersonal, teaching and communication skills, including the ability toactively listen to, understand and articulate the needs of users._Ability to apply new technologies to library services._Working knowledge of basic reference sources, including print, online databases and use of the internetin the research process._Demonstrated knowledge of the research process.Preferred qualifications:_Advanced degree in relevant humanities or social sciences discipline._two years previous professional experience in providing instructional and research services in anacademic library._Familiarity with information literacy survey and assessment techniques._Project management skills._Reading knowledge of a foreign language."

"Information Literacy,Reference Services"

"Coordinates the participation of reference/ collection development librarians in thelibrary research instruction program and provides assistance with conducting evaluative activities. Actsas the library's primary contact in the area of information literacy and as the liaison to the Center forWritten, Oral and Visual Communication. Provides general and specialized reference assistance and usereducation services to students, faculty and members of the public (virtually and face_to_ face). Managesa library collection, including identification, selection, evaluation, vendor negotiations and de_selectionof teaching and research_level library materials in a variety of formats. Consults with and advisesacademic departments on the selection and effective use of library materials. Provides proactive andresponsive service to faculty and students in assigned departments, including orientations, researchguidance, online subject and course guides and classroom instruction. Commitments to professionaldevelopment are expected."
