4/9/2015

"The Archivist, Alaska & Polar Regions Collections and Archives Department (APRCA) of the Rasmuson Library, develops, manages, and promotes manuscript and archival collections at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. APRCA provides exceptional resources for the study of Northern affairs with more than 150,000 monograph and serial volumes, 11,000 rare books and maps, 20,000 linear feet of archives and manuscripts, 1 million photographs, tens of thousands of historical films and videotapes, and over 11,000 hours of oral history recordings. Founded in 1917, UAF is a land-sea-space grant institution and the senior campus of the University of Alaska system with over 10,000 undergraduate and graduate students."

"Required: Masters degree in library & information science or an equivalent with an emphasis in records management or archival studies including at least one course in records management or archives administration. Minimum of 5 years professional experience in records management or arranging/describing manuscripts, archives, and photograph collections with progressive responsibilities. Minimum of 5 years of supervisory experience. Demonstrated communication and public service ability.Preferred: Course work in Alaskan or polar history, anthropology or political science; records management experience; experience with archival management software; experience with electronic records management systems; certification by the Institute of Certified Record Managers (CRM) or the Information Governance Professional certification (IGP); experience with public programs, exhibits and outreach."



"The Archivist is responsible for the records of the University of Alaska Fairbanks and for identifying, acquiring, and managing additional manuscript collections relating to Alaskan peoples, political life, history, and culture. The Archivist will collaborate with colleagues in the department, university, and the larger scholarly community in developing services and programs that promote the collections."
