4/15/2015

"Reporting to the Associate Dean for Teaching, Research & Technology, the Performing Arts Librarian provides research and instructional services to students, faculty, staff, and alumni of the Barnard and Columbia communities. The Librarian will teach information literacy and library research classes, give research consultations, and liaise with faculty and students in the disciples in the Performing Arts. They will also serve as personal librarian for students majoring in Theatre, Dance, and Music as well as undeclared majors and first-year students."

"* Demonstrated knowledge and interest in the scholarly and artistic practice of dance, theatre and music.* Ability to communicate effectively with faculty and students about the library's collections and services* An aptitude for or experience in teaching and developing instructional content and documentation. * Demonstrated initiative and the ability to create and maintain a collaborative work environment. * Fluency in database searching, office applications, and digital humanities tools.* Demonstrated knowledge if the concepts, pedagogy, research, and scholarly trends in librarianship.* MLS from an ALA-accredited program * 1-3 years of academic library or related experience * Academic degree or significant experience in at least two of the following: dance/dance studies, theatre/theatre studies, and/or music"

"Collection Development,Information Literacy,Reference Services"

"1. Serves as a liaison to students and faculty in departments as assigned. 2. Serves as a personal librarian to students majoring in Dance, Theatre and Music.  3. Act as Personal librarian to undeclared and first-year students and work closely with first-year English foundation classes. 4. Delivers instruction in library and information resources and develops appropriate online instructional materials and subject guides as needed. 5. Collaborates with colleagues to explore and expand the current instructional model used in library instruction, and provides supplemental instructional support for departs including, but not limited to, Urban Studies, Religion, & Art. 6. Develops, evaluates, and manages assigned areas of collection development in support of the curriculum.  7. Provides support in acquiring hard-to-find media materials in assigned departments and programs.  8. Collaborates with colleagues and partners with faculty to create and support innovative digital projects including but not limited to projects involving audio and video production, Wikipedia, etc. 9. Perform special projects and other duties as assigned."
