4/22/2015

"Arts and Humanities Collection Coordinator/ Visual Arts Librarian (Assistant Librarian / Associate Librarian / Librarian)The University of California San Diego Library seeks applications from highly motivated, innovative, and proactive library professionals to join the UC San Diego Library as our Arts and Humanities Collection Coordinator and subject librarian for Visual Arts. This position is based in the Collection Development and Management Program. The UC San Diego Library is committed to supporting academic excellence and diversity within the faculty, staff, and student body.The University and the LibraryWith nearly 30,000 students, UC San Diego is dedicated to the advancement of knowledge through excellence in education and research at the undergraduate, graduate, professional school and postdoctoral levels. UC San Diego has been recognized as one of the top 10 public universities in the nation by US News & World Report, as the 14th best university in the world by the Center for World-Class Universities at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. In 2013, for the fourth consecutive year UC San Diego was ranked 1st in the nation by the Washington Monthly's College Guide based on the positive impact the university has had on the country in terms of enabling social mobility, research productivity and civic engagement. The Arts and Humanities Division is uniquely poised on a scientifically-renowned campus. The Division offers more than 100 undergraduate majors and graduate programs to explore the many facets of human experience. Students are supported and guided by preeminent thinkers in our faculty, including winners of the Pulitzer Prize, the Tony Award, and the MacArthur Ôgenius grant' Fellowship. State-of-the-art facilities such as digital production labs and the cutting-edge Conrad Prebys Music Center support our scholars as they reimagine and redefine our culture. The Department of Theatre and Dance has been among the nation's top three for more than a decade. New synergies of art practice and avant-garde research are hallmarks of the Department of Visual Arts. The department includes artists, theorists, historians and cultural practitioners in one collaborative environment.The UC San Diego Library plays a critical role in advancing and supporting the University's research, teaching, patient care, and public service missions. The Library acquires and manages significant information resources in the arts and humanities in all formats including print, electronic, and media with a strong emphasis on 20th and 21st century, avant-garde, and cross-disciplinary arts."

"	Professional degree from a library school, or other appropriate degree or equivalent experience in one or more fields related to library services. * Academic work in the Visual Arts. * 3 or more years of professional library experience in arts or humanities collection development and management, including selecting information resources. * Familiarity with electronic and scholarly resources and reference tools for Visual Arts. * Ability to provide advanced research assistance and participate in course-integrated instruction in the Visual Arts. * Excellent interpersonal and communication skills. * Ability to plan, document, and complete projects. * Excellent analytical, interpersonal, time management, organizational and problem-solving skills. * Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment and with faculty, students, staff and colleagues from diverse backgrounds. * Strong commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion in higher education.Preferred Qualifications * Experience in identifying and acquiring special art materials such as exhibition catalogues, small press, and artists' books. * Experience and interest in issues related to using, evaluating, managing, licensing, and providing access to Visual Arts electronic resources. * Experience using ARTstor and other databases for the provision of digital images in support of teaching and research. * Experience developing and managing collections within a library consortium. * Experience coordinating the work of staff or librarians."

"Collection Development,Digital Collections,Information Literacy,Outreach/Advocacy"

"The position will report to the Lead Collection Coordinator of the Library's Collection Development and Management Program. The incumbent will:* Provide leadership and overall coordination for the development and management of the arts and humanities collections, which include Music, Literature, History, Philosophy, Theater and Dance, and Visual Arts. * Under the direction of the Lead Collection Coordinator, collaborates with the other collection coordinators to manage the collections budget and oversee the management of the Library's collections. * Directs the work of the Moving Image Collection Curator. * Serve as the primary contact for liaison services, reference and research support, and instructional needs of faculty and students in the Visual Arts; develop, manage, and promote collections, services, and resources to enhance the research, teaching, and learning mission of UC San Diego. * Collaborate with librarians and staff in other Library programs regarding the collection management, acquisition, digitization, and overall curation of arts resources. * Work with other UC campuses in collaborative collection development efforts, and serve as system-wide Resource Liaison for select Visual Arts electronic resources; serve as UC San Diego representative to the UC Art and Architecture Bibliographers' Group. * Design and deliver curriculum-integrated instruction and other learning activities in a variety of formats for Visual Arts faculty and students; develop and promote online subject guides and other information resources for Visual Arts and ARTstor. * Serve as UC San Diego Library's ARTstor Coordinator."
