4/22/2015

"The individual filling this position collects and preserves the history of the Duke Divinity School including that of its faculty, administration, facilities, programming, and traditions and disseminates that history to internal stakeholders and the wider public. In addition, the Divinity School Historian/Archivist seeks to obtain and preserve/digitize special archival collections relevant to Methodism, Christian scholarship and other religious traditions and practices to make them accessible to Divinity School students and faculty, researchers, and wider publics.Although the successful candidate will hold a doctorate and have an opportunity to teach one course/ fiscal year in the field of Church History, this is a library position and does not carry faculty status."

"Qualifications*A doctorate in church history (ABD Considered)*Ordination in a Christian denomination preferred.*A minimum of 1 year working in a library setting with any aspect of archives such as digitization, public engagement, or preservation.Skills   *Familiarity with DSpace repository software.*Advanced grasp of Microsoft Office applications, particularly Word and Excel.*Knowledge of Adobe CS a plus. *Familiarity with Metadata cataloging schema including Dublin Core, METS and MODS is highly desirable.  *Familiarity with library ILS systems/OPACs and discovery tools*Proven excellence with graduate level classroom teaching.*Comfort with executing multiple projects and deadlines simultaneously.*Excellent oral and written communication skills and the ability to serve graciously patrons at all levels including faculty, students, clergy, laity, and non-specialist audiences."

"Archives,Collection Development"

"*Provides reference interviews, bibliographic instruction, and responses to email queries related to church history and Divinity's archival holdings. *Researches and disseminates the Divinity School's history through publications (including authoring a new Divinity School history), displays, and presentations to both internal audiences and wider publics. This includes initiating contacts, providing publicity, and coordinating all aspects of such projects. *Collects, preserves and makes discoverable (by archiving originals and providing digital surrogates when feasible) the historical artifacts and records of the Divinity School, its faculty, and its programs/centers. This task is carried out in cooperation with the Duke University Archives while observing best practices for confidentiality, copyright compliance, and access to sensitive content.*Collects, preserves and makes discoverable (through archiving originals and providing digital surrogates with metadata when feasible, unique archival collections in the field of Methodism in particular and more generally Christianity and other religious traditions to make the materials accessible to researchers and the wider public in accordance with best practices for physical and digital archives. *Works with other Divinity School offices to spearhead programming to celebrate anniversary dates and significant events in the history of the institution.*Initiates, organizes, and executes collaborative projects with external bodies including other schools, churches, and denominational organizations such as the United Methodist General Board of History and Archives to make archival collections not held by Duke Divinity, but of value to the church and researchers in the field of Religion, available in digital formats.*Teaches up to one graduate level course/fiscal year in the field of Church History at the Duke Divinity School. *Serves as a consulting and training resource for: 1.local churches and religious non-profits seeking to preserve their own history, and2.pastors wishing to preserve their sermon collections and devotional writings.*Provides second line back-up for circulation staff during holidays, when library team members are out of the office or during times of heavy library patron traffic.*Supervises and trains one student worker to assist in archiving, digitization, and processing tasks.*Attends meetings and serves on committees within the Divinity School and wider Duke as assigned.*Completes reports, grant summaries, data entry, and project documentation as required. Carries out and performs other related duties as assigned by the Director of the Divinity School Library."
