4/25/2013

"Faculty Librarians work collaboratively and are responsible for teaching information skills to students, promoting information literacy instruction and library services to the College community.  Works closely with discipline faculty, other librarians, and staff to ensure that reference, instructional and collection development activities are coordinated and focused on student learning outcomes. The position will provide opportunities to teach credit-bearing library science courses linked to pre-college and college level courses, developed collaboratively as part of the College's Writing & Research across the Curriculum Project.  The position reports to the Library Director.Essential Functions*Participate with other librarians and faculty in the development, implementation, and assessment of the library's information literacy curriculum.*Provide on-site and online reference services for students and faculty using a variety of print and electronic information resources during weekday and regularly scheduled evening hours.*Teach face-to-face and online classes in information literacy.*Assist with the evaluation and implementation of computer hardware, software and other instructional technologies; maintain awareness of and ability to use emerging technologies.*Collaborate with discipline faculty to incorporate information skills-learning and assessment throughout the curriculum.*Design and create information skills tutorials for self-pacing learners.*Participate in collection development and the development and evaluation of policies and procedures. *Participate in the continuous assessment of library services and instruction techniques.*Serve on committees and participate in department, division and college activities normally assigned to full-time faculty.*Perform related duties as assigned."

"Minimum Qualifications*ALA accredited Masters of Library Science or related program from an accredited college or university.Preferred Qualifications*Significant coursework in a discipline or professional/technical program offered at Tacoma Community College.*Experience in libraries or information organizations.Condition of Employment*Successful completion of a criminal history background check.The Successful Candidate Must Demonstrate*Effective oral and written communication skills. *Strong commitment to student-centered reference service and library instruction to students with a variety of learning styles and diverse ethnic, linguistic, economic, and educational backgrounds. Ability to establish and maintain positive working relationships.*Ability to conduct a reference interview and teach users to identify, access, and use appropriate information resources.*Commitment to remaining current in the discipline and ongoing professional development; strong interest in improving teaching and learning through technology.*Ability to work effectively on individual projects and respond quickly and work flexibly to meet the needs of the team.*Ability to plan, initiate and implement effective programs and services.*Ethics and Integrity.*An appreciation of diversity and the benefits of a commitment to cultural awareness and sensitivity in the workplace.*Ability to successfully design and teach single, stand-alone research classes, as well as credit-bearing courses, in both face-to-face and online modes.*Familiarity with best practices in community college pedagogy.Application Materials & ProceduresComplete application packages must include the following. Selected candidates will be invited for an interview which will include a teaching demonstration. All documents submitted as a part of your application package become property of the college and will not be returned. 1. Tacoma Community College application.2. Resume & cover letter describing how your educational background and experience align with the responsibilities and qualifications of the position.3. Copies of transcripts for all colleges and universities attended (official transcripts will be required for the successful candidate).4. We strive to employ individuals who possess the skills necessary to effectively educate a diverse population of learners.  Our effort is to create a cultural climate that recognizes, respects, and celebrates differences.  Please attach a statement (maximum two pages):A. Expressing your cultural self-awareness,B. Describing your experiences with other cultures and communities, andC. Demonstrating how you apply these to the learning/working environment. Terms of EmploymentThis is a full-time, tenure track faculty position contracted for 176 days with an annual, fourth quarter summer assignment. Placement on the faculty salary schedule will be commensurate with educational background and experience. Compensation for the annual fourth quarter summer assignment is in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement.  A collective bargaining agreement exists, and membership in the TCC Federation of Teachers or payment of a service fee is required.   Flexibility is required to meet the needs of the department and may include evening and weekend assignments. Degrees must be from accredited colleges or universities recognized by the U.S. Department of Education and verified by official transcripts."
