4/24/2015

"The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is accepting applications for the position of Clinical Librarian and Graduate Medical Education Specialist.  Reporting to the User Services Clinical Services Coordinator, the Clinical Librarian and Graduate Medical Education Specialist provides client-centered information and education services using a variety of methods and technologies. Work is performed in client settings and in the library. The person in this position is part of a team of librarians and support staff working to achieve the library's mission to manage information and knowledge to advance health and health care. This position works closely with the School of Medicine Librarian, the Clinical Information Specialist, the Cancer Information Librarian, and the Consumer Health and Patient Education Librarian to deliver a coordinated and complementary suite of information services. The Clinical Librarian will stay current with accreditation requirements related to demonstration of residents' ability to develop and apply evidence based medicine skills in clinical practice. The individual in this position will explore and implement training for UNC Hospitals' residents, both in person and online, covering patient related information retrieval and the critical appraisal of evidence. Expected additional services include: expert mediated searching to provide synthesized answers in response to advanced requests received from clinicians and patients, graduate and professional students, and researchers; effective and innovative client-centered education services synchronously and asynchronously using a variety of methods and technologies both in client settings and in the library; and individual and group consultations on information discovery, retrieval and management.This is a half-time (0.5 FTE) position with a flexible 20 hours per week schedule Monday through Friday.  After training, the Clinical Librarian will participate in librarian rotation for monitoring weekend email requests from home.The Health Sciences Library (HSL) (http://hsl.lib.unc.edu/) serves the instructional, clinical, and research information needs of the UNC Hospitals, Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health, the North Carolina AHEC Program, as well as the citizens of North Carolina. The HSL is a Resource Library in the National Network of Libraries of Medicine.  One of the premier health sciences libraries in the country, UNC's HSL is uniquely positioned on a major research university campus with all five health affairs schools, a top-ranked School of Information and Library Science, and a large hospital system."

"Required: ALA-accredited master's degree in library or information science or related advanced degree.  At least five years of health sciences reference experience using tools such as PubMed, EMBASE, hospital management and business databases, Web of Science, CINAHL, and PsycINFO.  Experience providing information services and instruction for health sciences students and medical residents.Preferred: Classroom and online teaching experience. Hospital library experience._"
