4/24/2015

"The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill seeks to hire a Government Information Librarian who will enthusiastically promote and defend the publication and dissemination of information from federal and state offices to researchers, scholars and citizens in North Carolina.  The Librarian will serve as subject librarian for government and international agency information and for designated, related social science academic departments.  In this role, the librarian will deliver and help shape high quality outreach, instructional, and research support services to faculty, students, and scholars by integrating new and emerging information literacy principles and technology, and will help create shared practices that connect the Libraries' learning environment and research knowledge with constituent needs.   Reporting to the Head of Research and Instructional Services, the successful candidate will join a dedicated and service-oriented department that supports teaching and research in the humanities and social sciences.  The department is actively engaged in collaboration with the Research Hub, a major library initiative that brings together partners, technology, expertise, and resources that scholars need to support new endeavors in today's research environment.	The Government Information Librarian serves as the Regional Federal Depository Librarian for North Carolina and supervises the Government Documents and Microforms Section.  The Librarian is responsible for the strategic planning, vision, and overall management of this large and well-established Federal, international, and U. S. state documents collection of over two million government documents and of the Library's Microform Collection.  The Library as part of the Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) is the Federal Documents Regional Depository for North Carolina, is a depository for United Nations documents, and acquires publications in multiple formats from agencies such as UNESCO, IMF, World Bank, OECD, WTO, FAO, and ILO.  The Librarian supervises support staff and student assistants and also serves as a member of the department's management team.   As Regional Librarian, the individual in this position works with other Federal depository librarians in North Carolina and oversees the Library's participation in the ASERL Collaborative Federal Depository initiative and UNC's ASERL Center of Excellence for US Congressional hearings.  The Librarian is expected to be active in ALA's Government Documents Roundtable (GODORT) and the North Carolina Library Association Government Resources Section, to participate in meetings of the Federal Depository Council, and to be an engaged leader in the current discussions about the future of the Federal Depository Library Program.    The Librarian should be forward-looking - actively seeking new ideas and sustainable ways of operating in the 21st century.The individual in this position will lead the Libraries' collection building in the designated subject areas and serve on the Social Sciences collection management team, which collaborates in the evaluation and selection of resources for library purchase.  The Librarian will increase awareness, within the assigned areas, of scholarly communication, copyright, and authors' rights issues in collaboration with the Scholarly Communications Officer.  The librarian will broaden access to collections through digital project initiatives and actively acquire and promote both licensed and freely available digital resources of value to researchers.Librarians in the Research and Instructional Services Department demonstrate a strong commitment to applying customer service techniques and practices in delivering instruction and reference services and should be prepared to participate in scholarly research and professional activities, including service on library-wide committees and task forces.  The Government Information Librarian will actively develop regional, national, and international partnerships and collaborations to advance the strategic directions of the Libraries."

"Required:  ALA-accredited Master's degree in library or information science.  Minimum of three years of progressively responsible experience in Federal documents.  Supervisory experience.  Teaching/instruction experience.  Strong commitment to public service.  Demonstrated ability to work effectively and collaboratively with diverse colleagues, students, faculty, and researchers. Excellent oral and written communication skills. Experience with collection management.Preferred:  Experience in a federal regional depository.  Experience with international and state documents. Experience providing outreach services in a subject specialty.  Background in the social sciences.  Experience using data in the social sciences."
