5/8/2015

"Bucknell University seeks to hire a Librarian for the Arts & Humanities within Library & Information Technology (L&IT). Bucknell is a highly selective, predominately undergraduate residential university with strong liberal arts and professional programs. There are approximately 3,400 undergraduates and 150 master's degree students. The campus is in a beautiful, rural setting adjacent to the Susquehanna River. Harrisburg and State College (home of Penn State University) are about an hour away; New York, Washington D.C., Baltimore, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh are approximately a three to four hour drive. The university supports an active program of cultural events and opportunities for recreation. In August 1997 Bucknell University integrated its library and computing organizations to form the Library and Information Technology department. We focus on strengthening natural areas of collaboration and creating synergies among staff members. We strive to create an information-rich environment for the campus and enjoy a strong service reputation. Library and Information Technology is committed to supporting the professional development of its 85 staff members. To learn more about Bucknell University's Library and Information Technology, explore our website at http://www.bucknell.edu/libraryIT. The Librarian for the Arts and Humanities is directly responsible for supporting and adding value to the education Bucknell students receive. This position serves as a central information resource for faculty and students in the arts and humanities, providing research support and instructional services as well as selecting, organizing and providing access to information in the arts and humanities. The Librarian for the Arts and Humanities is fully engaged with faculty and students providing relevant instruction, outreach and support for scholarship. This position reports to the Director for Research Services and Information Literacy."

"-Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program by August 2015. -Knowledge of disciplinary research and inquiry methodologies in the arts and/or humanities. -Ability to set priorities and manage work and deadlines independently required. -Ability to"

"Collection Development,Digital Collections,Information Literacy,Outreach/Advocacy,Reference Services"

" -Serves as subject liaison for faculty and students in arts and humanities disciplines and related interdisciplinary programs. -Works with other Research Services librarians and staff to provide coverage of interdisciplinary areas outside of conventional subject boundaries. -Provides specialized instruction and reference services for assigned subject areas. -Teaches information literacy skills in the classroom, using current learning, teaching and information literacy theory and appropriate instructional technology. -Develops instructional tools for teaching information literacy that can be used in or outside of the classroom. -Collaborates with faculty to provide access to materials which support the curriculum in the arts and humanities. Uses data in decision making. -Collaborates with faculty and instructional technologists to inspire and support academic users of information resources and instructional technology thereby enhancing teaching and learning in the arts and humanities. -Works to increase the understanding and application of digital humanities among faculty and students. -Develops and maintains an understanding of the aims and needs of the University's teaching, learning and research programs through active consultation with faculty, administrators and information technology peers. -Maintains a deep knowledge of current and emerging trends, issues, and best practices in academic library outreach, instruction, information literacy, scholarly communication and information access and actively identifies relevant initiatives for local implementation. -Actively identifies possible points for technology integration into Research Services programs and work. -Participates in outreach services, marketing and assessment program to improve services. -As appropriate, both leads and participates in key projects and strategic initiatives related to library instruction, reference services, collection development, outreach and student support. -Is active in the library profession at both the national and regional level."
