5/12/2015

"TITLE:			Research Commons Librarian	LOCATION:		Suzzallo and Allen LibraryTHE LIBRARIES  Serving three campuses, the University of Washington Libraries is one of the largest and most innovative libraries in North America with collections exceeding 8 million volumes, over 500,000 electronic books, more than 120,000 currently received journal titles, as well as millions of scholarly resources in other formats. Beyond the strength of local collections and digital resources, the Libraries is recognized for its excellent service, innovative learning and research spaces, faculty partnerships, global reach, extensive assessment efforts and diverse award-winning staff. The Libraries plays a significant leadership role regionally as a member in the groundbreaking Orbis Cascade Alliance and throughout the profession as evidenced by the number of its staff selected for competitive leadership programs and honored by professional association lifetime achievement awards.RESEARCH COMMONSCreated in 2010, the Research Commons is an active, flexible, experimental space designed to enhance community and support the collaborative needs of UW students, faculty, and staff. Services offered include consultations and workshops targeted at graduate and upper-level undergraduate students, and include support for funding, writing, design, and citation management. The Research Commons provides a sandbox for testing new program models that are created to foster interdisciplinary collaboration and encourage the sharing of research. The Research Commons is a unit of the Reference and Research Services Division. Other units in the Division include Government Publications, Maps and Cartographic Services, and Microform and Newspaper Collections (GMM); Information Services; Media Center; Reference Services; Educational Outreach Services; and Research Data Services. Many of the subject librarians for disciplines in the Humanities, International Studies, Sciences, and Social Sciences are located in the Division.THE POSITIONThe University of Washington Libraries seeks a creative and energetic librarian to provide leadership in planning, developing, and coordinating the Research Commons space, program, and services in collaboration with campus and Libraries partners. The Research Commons Librarian will provide vision, leadership, and management in developing innovative services and programs, and in guiding a flexible, user-centered space. The successful applicant will be an innovative, forward-thinking, self-directed problem-solver who will bring fresh ideas and work collaboratively to advance and expand our shared vision of the Research Commons. The position represents an exciting opportunity to help guide the Libraries in new and innovative directions.SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES  The Research Commons Librarian develops new programs that are focused on the fostering of interdisciplinary connections and sharing of research, with an emphasis on programs that will serve graduate student and upper level undergraduate student research needs. The librarian identifies student research needs that can be met by the Research Commons, and consults regularly with the Libraries' student advisory committees. The librarian directs all aspects of the Research Commons, fostering a dynamic and innovative environment focused on collaboration. The librarian supervises the Assistant Research Commons librarian and a team of graduate student assistants who provide support for services, programs, assessment, and outreach.  Leadership and mentorship are provided in managing staff, delegating project tasks, and fostering communication. Working with staff in Libraries Information Technology Services, the librarian oversees the design and updating of the Research Commons' virtual presence. The position works collaboratively with the Libraries Assessment Coordinator to direct yearly goals and activities for Research Commons' assessment. QUALIFICATIONSRequired_	Graduate degree from a program accredited by the American Library Association or an equivalent graduate library science/information studies degree._	Demonstrated commitment to diversity and understanding of the contributions a diverse workforce brings to the workplace._	Minimum of two years of post-MLS experience in an academic library._	Demonstrated ability to effectively build partnerships and work collaboratively with a variety of individuals and groups in a rapidly changing environment._	Evidence of excellent communication and interpersonal skills, including the ability to foster a collegial work environment that encourages change and innovation._	Demonstrated initiative, creativity, and flexibility, and evidence of success in conceiving, implementing, and managing new programs and services. _	Demonstrated commitment to user-centered design of space and services. _	Experience providing library user education and virtual reference services._	Experience working with content management systems.Preferred_	Experience with space planning and facilities management in an academic library. _	Experience with supervision and mentorship of staff and students.  _	Experience conducting assessment in a library environment.SALARY$48,000 minimum. Starting salary commensurate with qualifications and background.RANKPosition will be at rank of Senior Assistant or Associate Librarian, depending on qualifications and background.BENEFITSLibrarians are academic personnel and participate in the University of Washington Retirement Plan on a matching basis. Vacation is accrued at the rate of 24 working days per year; sick leave at the rate of 12 working days per year. No state or local income tax.APPLICATION PROCESSTo apply for this position, please submit the following information to libhr@uw.edu:_	Cover letter (addressed to Laura Lillard, Assistant Director, Libraries Academic Human Resources)._	Curriculum vitae or resume (include a telephone number, mailing address, email address and salary requirements)._	List of three references who are knowledgeable of your qualifications for this position, one of which must be your current supervisor (include telephone numbers, mailing addresses, and email addresses)._	Please use ""Librarian Application"" in the subject heading._	Please submit all components in a single, multi-page PDF document. All submissions will be maintained in a secure, password protected online file space until interviews are conducted. Then, some application materials will be circulated.APPLICATION DEADLINETo ensure consideration, applications should be received no later than 5:00 pm, June 12, 2015.University of Washington Libraries Home Page is http://www.lib.washington.edu.University of Washington is an affirmative action and equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, genderidentity, national origin, age, protected veteran or disabled status, orgenetic information.In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the University is required to verify and document the citizenship or employment authorization of each new employee.  For questions about this position, or questions regarding potential disability accommodations, please contact Laura Lillard at libhr@uw.edu."
