5/14/2015

"An opportunity for a recent library school graduate to explore community college librarianship by working in all areas of an award-winning community college library. The position is a temporary part-time and will be completed between August 24, 2015 - May 13, 2016. The Luria Resident is generously funded by The Luria Foundation.The Library Resident will work approximately 25-hours per week during the fall and spring semesters. Specific schedule will be mutually agreed upon with the Library Director. The position is formally an adjunct librarian and will be paid on that salary schedule (approximately $40/hr).Application Deadline: June 15, 2015"

"Possession of a Master's Degree from an accredited institution in Library Science, Library and Information Science that was awarded in 2014 or 2015 (degree must be awarded prior to start date).    A career interest in community college librarianship.    Excellent interpersonal and written and verbal communication skills.; adaptable to a rapidly changing environment, and ability to collaborate with various departmental service units.    Energetic, innovative, and flexible."

"Archives,Cataloging,Collection Development,Digital Collections,Education,Information Literacy,Metadata,Outreach/Advocacy,Reference Services,Taxonomy,Web Development/Design,Web Services"

"The Library Resident will rotate through different operations of the library. The list below is an example of the types of process and tasks the Library Resident might expect to participate in during a semester. The Library Resident is also encouraged to make suggestions and bring their own innovative ideas.TECHNICAL SERVICESCatalog archive collectionEnhance bibliographic records in integrated library systemCOLLECTION DEVELOPMENTRecommend purchases using acquisition plan and reviewing sourcesParticipate in collection review for deaccessioningOUTREACH/PROGRAMMINGParticipate in SBCC activities to promote library programAdd to library blog and participate in social media updatesExplore and implement eBook and database promotionCreate book and other displaysINSTRUCTIONCollaborate with librarians to develop, deliver, and assess research instruction in discipline specific classesCreate online research guides, video tutorials, and other learning objects for specific disciplines, courses, and assignmentsSupport and provide reference servicesASSESSMENTCollaborate with librarians to develop and implement measures to assess library resources, services, and instruction.Create user survey or usability studies"
