5/15/2015

"Two (2) year, term-limited, full-time positionThe Humanities Librarian is directly responsible for supporting and adding value to the education that University of Puget Sound students receive. This is a two year appointment that will focus on the key subject areas of English, Classics, Hispanic Studies, Latina/o Studies, and Philosophy as well as support the first year seminars and contribute to the development of services associated with the digital humanities, which may include work with the Artstor Digital Library.  The Humanities Librarian is a self-motivated, service-oriented team player with a passion for teaching who can embrace an environment of continual improvement. The Humanities Librarian is a member of the Collins Library User Services Team and actively participates in reference and research, teaching and learning, engagement and outreach and some collection development, in consultation with other humanities librarians.   The Humanities Librarian reports to the Associate Director for User Services and works closely with the Coordinator of Teaching and Learning to establish information literacy related programs.  The Humanities Librarian embraces the innovative use of technology to enhance teaching and learning"

"Qualifications: *	MLS degree from accredited program. Equivalent combination of education and experience considered.*	Education or experience in the humanities or equivalent demonstrated knowledge*	Strong interest in current and emerging information technologies and potential applications and opportunities for the library, particularly in the digital humanities*	Strong commitment to high quality public service*	Experience and/or education in incorporating information literacy best practices into classroom, online, and one-to-one teaching*	Reference experience or training*	Demonstrated team and project leadership skills*	Demonstrated capacity to work effectively and collegially with library staff, faculty and students.*	Ability to function effectively in an ambiguous and rapidly changing environment*	Knowledge of digital learning tools, including web development and web technologies; demonstrated HTML application*	Excellent organizational, analytical, time management and communication skills.*	An understanding of and commitment to the educational objectives of the University and the ability to contribute significantly to the role of the Library in the educational process.*	Enthusiasm, coupled with excellent communication skills*	Commitment to a diverse and equitable work environment.Preferred:*	Undergraduate major or extensive coursework in English, Comparative literature or other literary studies; and/or Spanish language and literature, Latina/o Studies, or Hispanic Studies.*	Experience teaching classes, workshops, and one-to-one public services experience in an academic library; knowledge of digital humanities tools and best practices; knowledge of scholarly communication issues and trends"

"Digital Scholarship,Education,Information Literacy,Outreach/Advocacy,Project Management,Reference Services,Web Development/Design,Web Services"

"Serve as a resource specialist for the humanities with focus in English, Classics, Hispanic Studies, Latina/o Studies and Philosophy. *	Actively participate in course related instruction and the information literacy program for the humanities departments.*	Actively participate in teaching programs for the first year seminars.*	Support the research and curricular activities of the humanities departments and associated interdisciplinary programs, with particular emphasis in emerging trends in higher education such as digital humanities and/or data curation.  May include some work with digital image collections.*	Develop web based resources (LibGuides, etcÉ) and other unique learning objects in the humanities and contribute to the overall web presence of the library.*	Communicate information about library policies and promote library services to liaison areas and students. *	Provide reference service in traditional and electronic environments.*	Participate in professional activities and departmental planning.*	In consultation with the Coordinator of Teaching, Learning and Digital Humanities, select resources for the library collection and promote use of open access resources and contribute to the general collection enhancement.*	May assist in traiing and directing students in functions related to responsibilities.*	May monitor learning materials budget for liaison departments and ensure timely spend out.*Other duties as needed"
