5/27/2015

"Department: King LibraryDivision: Academic AffairsCampus: OxfordPosting Date: 05/04/2015Job Category: StaffPosition Group: UnclassifiedJob Description Summary:Job ID 797The Miami University Libraries seek an enthusiastic Resident/Visiting Assistant Librarian to serve as subject specialist and liaison to academic departments in the life sciences, physical sciences, and/or engineering and computing disciplines.Duties/Physical Demands:The position will have primary responsibility for 3-5 academic departments, providing specialized reference, consultation, instruction, and collection development services for faculty, graduate and undergraduate students in those programs; as well as assisting in provision of general library services as a member of the Business, Engineering, Science, and Technology Library and Miami University Libraries teams.  The position reports to the Head of the Business, Engineering, Science, and Technology Library.The successful candidate will be a highly self-motivated, creative, clientele-centered team player who is committed to providing excellent customer service and is knowledgeable about information technology, emerging trends within the library profession, and scholarly communication in scientific research and its literature.  Depending on the candidate's skills and interests, opportunities exist for the successful candidate to participate in a variety of Libraries-wide initiatives, projects, and teams; to teach credit courses and develop and teach non-credit classes and workshops for the library system; to develop software and web-based projects; to engage in the Libraries' 3D printing, modeling and scanning services; to develop traditional and interactive library exhibits; and to engage and mentor undergraduates in disciplinary research."

"Preferred Qualifications:Preferred Qualifications:Prior degree or demonstrated subject experience working in the life sciences, physical sciences, and/or engineering and computingFamiliarity with HTML5, web scripting/programming and designWillingness and capability to independently learn and apply new technologies of interest to the Libraries.Hours Per Week/Percent Time: 100%Duration: 12 monthsTemporary: YesBenefit Eligible: YesDate to Begin Screening: 05/18/2015Required Documents: Cover Letter, List of Three References, ResumeSpecial Instructions to Applicant: Inquiries can be directed to petermda@miamioh.eduApplication Types Accepted: UnclassifiedCriminal Background Check Required: Yes"



"Minimum Qualifications:Minimum Qualifications:Graduate library degree from an ALA-accredited institution.Strong commitment to high quality public service.Teaching skills leading to proficient instruction of undergraduate and graduate students in information literacy.Analytical skills to effectively assist patrons with information retrieval.Flexibility to thrive in an environment of continual change.Ability to work in teams and independently, with all levels of staff and with diverse library customers.Strong technology skills including in the use and application of multimedia software.Strong written and oral communication skills.Initiative and ability to conceive and carry out projects."
