5/29/2015

"Research Services Librarians, with Opportunities for Strategic Leadership RolesSeattle University's Lemieux Library and McGoldrick Learning Commons invites applications for three library faculty members to help rebuild its research services and instruction programs following a series of retirements and a special opportunity to help extend its programs and services in strategic areas.Three new Research Services Librarians will provide an array of research and instructional services to the university community.  Library faculty serve as Liaison Librarians to the academic programs.  We seek candidates who bring education, experience, or aptitude that enable them to serve as liaison in the areas of business and economics, nursing, science and engineering, or education.  With appropriate credentials, successful Research Librarian candidates may carry an additional assignment as Lead Librarian for Academic Partnerships, Lead Librarian for Assessment, or Lead Librarian for User Outreach, working in a collaborative mode to help the library develop its expertise and extend its impact.The successful candidates will demonstrate:  a strong commitment to innovative, user-centered services; effective oral and written communication and interpersonal skills; evidence of professional growth through scholarly activity and service; strong commitment to a supportive, collegial work environment; willingness to accept and support the mission of Seattle University and its commitment to the vision and values of Jesuit and Catholic higher education; the ability to deliver effective contributions to current programs within existing library structures and the willingness to assist library administrators and colleagues actively to shape the future of the organization and its services to its campus and consortial communities.These 12-month non-tenure-track positions, at the rank of Assistant or Associate Librarian and available July 1, 2015, offer successful candidates the opportunity to honor the core commitments of effective academic librarianship and to contribute to emerging opportunities in service to a dynamic campus community.Primary Assignment:  Research Services LibrarianResponsibilities:o	Provide research assistance in multiple modalities (in person, phone, chat, email).o	Serve as liaison to one or more academic programs with the following responsibilities:  Build and maintain skills and subject expertise to serve faculty and students in liaison area(s); assist with the identification, evaluation, and selection of materials; provide general and specialized instruction; create and maintain web-based subject resource guides; communicate and market library policies, procedures, collections, and services.o	Participate in the work of library committees, task forces, teams or groups, and the activities of the Library Faculty.o	Contribute to effective communication and a collegial work environment among library units and staff.o	Demonstrate commitment to professional growth through scholarly activity and service.o	Carry out other duties as assigned that contribute to the achievement of strategic plans, the completion of special projects, or the delivery of library services.Required:o	ALA-accredited graduate degree.o	Experience providing research assistance in a library or information services setting.o	Teaching experience in a library or information services setting.Preferred:o	Experience providing research assistance in multiple modalities (in-person, phone, chat, email).o	Experience teaching in an academic library information literacy program.o	Experience conducting personalized research consultations in an academic library.Potential Secondary Assignments:Lead Librarian for Academic PartnershipsResponsibilities:o	Collaborate with key partners in the Division of Academic Affairs and the Division of Student Development to develop and implement innovative programming for library support to a range of current programs, including Learning Communities, the Common Text, and the Entry and Second Year Experience initiatives.o	Act as the library's primary contact to explore additional opportunities to support the SU Core.o	Identify additional opportunities for partnerships or collaboration with other programs and initiatives in the Divisions of Academic Affairs and Student Development.Preferred:o	Ability to manage or coordinate multiple simultaneous projects with a diverse group of library and university colleagues.o	Experience or ability to turn innovative ideas into actionable plans.o	Ability to facilitate teams of colleagues, with whom there is no direct reporting relationship, to bring projects to satisfactory and timely completion.Lead Librarian for AssessmentResponsibilities:o	Facilitate the library's continuous assessment activities, both public-facing and internal, by working with library faculty and staff to design and administer assessment projects and to analyze and present results that inform decisions.o	Keep current with best practices and emerging trends in assessment and user engagement.Preferred:o	Knowledge of the collection, interpretation, and application of statistical information.o	Experience with qualitative and quantitative assessment, including such activities as survey design, focus groups, or usability testing.o	Ability to monitor, manage, or coordinate multiple diverse projects and their schedules.o	Demonstrated experience with appropriate computing and statistical platforms, programs, and presentation tools pertinent to academic library data collection and analysis.o	Ability to facilitate teams of colleagues, with whom there is no direct reporting relationship, to bring projects to satisfactory and timely completion.Lead Librarian for User OutreachResponsibilities:o	Chair a library communication and marketing group.o	Develop and facilitate a marketing and communication plan.o	Employ creative and interactive, traditional and contemporary communication methods to promote the library and learning commons.o	Facilitate the creation and maintenance of the library's digital presence (e.g. website, LibGuides, and mobile technologies) to provide a strong educational and service-oriented environment.o	Lead in the design and production of brochures, flyers, posters, media, or other marketing assets.o	Serve as primary contact with SU Marketing Communications.Preferred:o	Demonstrated ability to design and develop publications, annual reports, brochures, or digital content.o	Ability to facilitate teams of colleagues, with whom there is no direct reporting relationship, to bring projects to satisfactory and timely completion.Salary is competitive, based on review of credentials and experience.Seattle University, founded in 1891, is a Jesuit Catholic university located on 48 acres on Seattle's Capitol Hill. More than 7,700 students are enrolled in undergraduate and graduate programs within eight schools. U.S. News and World Report's ""Best Colleges 2015"" ranks Seattle University among the top 10 universities in the West that offer a full range of masters and undergraduate programs. Seattle University is an equal opportunity employer.In support of its pursuit of academic and scholarly excellence, Seattle University is committed to creating a diverse community of students, faculty and staff that is dedicated to the fundamental principles of equal opportunity and treatment in education and employment regardless of age, color, disability, gender identity, national origin, political ideology, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or veteran status. The university encourages applications from, and nominations of, individuals whose differing backgrounds, beliefs, ideas and life experiences will further enrich the diversity of its educational community.Applicants must apply at http://jobs.seattleu.edu/postings/17754 and provide:  (1)  detailed letter of application identifying the candidate's education, experience, achievements, and potential to succeed in the position, as well as salary expectations;  (2) comprehensive curriculum vitae;  (3) statement on how the candidate, personally and professionally, can contribute to the mission, vision, and values of Seattle University;  (4) names and contact information for four professional references who can address the candidate's experience and ability pertinent to the position;  (5) an indication of the Lead Librarian assignment(s) for which they wish to be considered.  Applicants are encouraged to submit any other evidence of qualifications. Consult the library's website for the detailed job description.  Application review will begin June 30, 2015. Open until filled.  Library faculty appointment will be at appropriate rank, based on experience and service."



"Information Literacy,Reference Services"
