5/13/2013

"The Washington University Libraries invites applications for the position of Japanese Studies Librarian.RESPONSIBILITIES:  Working in the East Asian Library and reporting to the East Asian Studies Librarian, the Japanese Studies Librarian is responsible for outreach, reference, instruction, and collection development and management for Japanese studies.  This role includes selecting materials in all formats and languages on Japanese studies; developing and maintaining electronic resources and services; providing in-person and virtual reference, research consultation, and instructional services; planning and writing grant proposals for developing the Japanese collection; managing the gift and exchange program; serving as liaison to Japanese studies faculty and students; and performing original and adaptive cataloging of Japanese language materials.  This position also has some responsibility for providing similar library services for the Korean Studies Program.QUALIFICATIONS:  Required: MLS degree from an ALA accredited school or equivalent relevant advanced degree.  Fluent command of both written and spoken Japanese and English. Familiarity with scholarly trends in Japanese and East Asian studies. Knowledge of and/or experience with national cataloging rules and practices (AACR2, RDA, MARC21, LCSH, LC classification), including Romanization standards. Ability to work both independently and as a member of a team.Preferred:  Advanced academic work in Japanese studies. Knowledge of Japanese publishing industry, and electronic resources in Japanese studies. Be knowledgeable about and be able to educate and inform faculty, students, and campus administrators about scholarly communication trends and issues.Working experience in an East Asian library or an academic library. Reading knowledge of Korean, and knowledge of trends in Korean scholarship and publishing.GENERAL INFORMATION:  Washington University, located at the western edge of the city of St. Louis, is a medium-sized, independent, research university founded in 1853, and is internationally known for excellence in teaching and research and for the quality of its faculty and student body.  The East Asian Library is one of twelve school and departmental libraries serving the Washington University community.  The library serves an essential role in the university's East Asian studies program.  For more information, please visit the Washington University/Libraries' web sites at http://www.wustl.edu; http://library.wustl.edu, and the East Asian Library's web site at http://library.wustl.edu/units/ea.EXCELLENT BENEFITS PACKAGE:  22 vacation days, TIAA-CREF, etc. APPLICATION INFORMATION:  Applications must be submitted online at https://jobs.wustl.edu. Reference job #25658. For full consideration, attach a letter of application, resume, and the names of three references (including e-mail & phone number). Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until the position is filled.Employment eligibility verification required upon hire. Washington University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer."
