6/11/2015

"The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Health Sciences Library (HSL) is seeking a Global Public Health Librarian who is passionate about the value a librarian can add to public health education, research and practice. The primary focus of this position is to serve researchers, faculty, students and staff in the Gillings School of Global Public Health.  Work is performed in client settings and in the library. Information services are provided through office hours in the school, consultations, chat, email, telephone, and the User Services Center.  Education services are provided by offering curriculum integrated instruction and by developing online user guides and tutorials.Reporting to the Assistant Department Head of User Services, the person in this position is a member of the User Services Department.The Health Sciences Library (hsl.lib.unc.edu/) serves the instructional, clinical, and research information needs of the UNC Hospitals, Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health, the North Carolina AHEC Program, as well as the citizens of North Carolina. The HSL is a Resource Library in the National Network of Libraries of Medicine.  One of the premier health sciences libraries in the country, UNC's HSL is uniquely positioned on a major research university campus with all five health affairs schools, a top-ranked School of Information and Library Science, and a large hospital system."

"Required: *	ALA-accredited Master's degree in library or information science.*	Minimum two years of experience as a Health Sciences Librarian or comparable work providing health information services.*	Ability to demonstrate knowledge of public health information sources and how they are used in public health education, research and practice.*	Ability to provide and assess information competency instruction for both in-person and distance education students.*	Excellent oral and written communication skills.*	Flexible self-starter with demonstrated ability to discover and use innovative approaches.*	Ability to work effectively and collaboratively with diverse colleagues, students, faculty, and researchers.*	Demonstrated commitment to continued professional development.Preferred:*	Public health education or work experience.*	Knowledge of the systematic review process.*	Experience partnering with researchers conducting systematic reviews.*	Current experience using instructional technology tools for distance education.*	Experience finding funding opportunities or writing grants.*	Experience using EndNote, RefWorks and similar products. *	Experience developing online content using web tools such as LibGuides, blogs, wikis, MOOCs."

Reference Services

"The Global Public Health Librarian will be responsible for initiating relationships with people working in cross-disciplinary public health courses, programs, centers, and institutes (both on and off campus) to identify and fulfill needs for information and education services. The person in this position will maintain current knowledge and share expertise in searching the wide range of information tools used in public health, particularly in the areas of global health, health statistics and informatics. The Librarian will maintain and share knowledge of innovative information, education and communication methods and tools, especially as they relate to public health practice. The Librarian in this position will develop an understanding of the research themes important to the School (sph.unc.edu/sph-research/research-impact/) and identify ways HSL can support and partner with public health researchers (hsl.lib.unc.edu/hub). The person in this position will work with the Area Health Education Centers' staff (library.ncahec.net/ils/) to meet the needs of public health practitioners and students across the state. The Librarian will actively develop local, regional, national and international collaborations to advance the strategic directions and Global Engagement initiatives (hsl.lib.unc.edu/global) of the Library. HSL librarians are expected to pursue research and professional development activities appropriate to maintaining or advancing appointment rank."
