6/18/2015

"Assistant or Associate Professor Purdue University Libraries (PUL) seeks a highly motivated, innovative, and learner-centered individual to join a collaborative, dynamic team who carry out a robust program of integrated information literacy, data services, scholarly communication, and collaborative research, and, as a Libraries faculty member, contributes to the research and scholarship in those areas.The Molecular Plant Sciences Information (MPSI) Specialist will establish collaborative relationships with individual research laboratory groups and academic centers (e.g., Center for Molecular Agriculture); develop and conduct strong user-centered programs to support discovery and learning in the plant sciences; take a leading role in defining and implementing user instruction for students and faculty in the plant sciences as an integral part of the Libraries' system-wide information literacy program; evaluate, select, and integrate molecular plant sciences resources into the Libraries collections for optimal use and sharing; evaluate and procure tools and resources that contribute to plant bioinformatics research; lead in data related initiatives in the Libraries Health and Life Sciences Division, providing consultation services in developing data management strategies and plans, and by leveraging library expertise in copyright, scholarly publishing, patent/trademark issues, and data curation.Contributes to Libraries-wide initiatives; and participates in faculty governance of the Libraries.The MPSI Specialist may serve as a subject liaison to at least one discipline, department or area.Required qualifications: Master's degree from an ALA-accredited library school and undergraduate or graduate degree in a life sciences or doctoral degree in life sciences or other relevant area; commitment to engage in research and scholarship, and ability to achieve promotion and tenure; strong service orientation; excellent communication and presentation skills and ability to work well with all levels of users and staff.Desired Qualifications: Plant sciences degree and/or experience. Experience in molecular plant sciences (e.g. plant molecular biology, plant genetics or plant bioinformatics); demonstrated interest in the applications of current and emerging technologies to meet the changing needs of users; demonstrated commitment to user instruction and to consultation with users on their information management needs.Environment: Purdue University Libraries (PUL), recipient of the 2015 Award for Excellence in University Libraries from the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL), is at the forefront of academic librarianship and redefining the role of the academic, research library in learning, discovery, and engagement activities of the University. Libraries faculty and staff are deeply involved in information literacy instruction and instructional design, re-defining of learning spaces, scholarly communication, data management, and global outreach. PUL has embarked upon a comprehensive program to engage in campus learning initiatives, including the development of information literacy instruction, course-redesign initiatives advancing active learning on campus, and the design and implementation of dynamic new learning spaces.Purdue Libraries faculty have been expanding their collaborative endeavors with disciplinary faculty in integrating information literacy into the curriculum, culminating in 2012 with a core campus curriculum that includes information literacy as a core requirement. PUL is also home to the first endowed chair in information literacy in the United States, established in 2008.A reconceptualization of spaces is taking place throughout PUL. The recently renovated Roland G. Parrish Library of Management and Economics is a natural extension of the classroom, redesigned with input from students. The renovation of the Hicks Undergraduate Library completed in 2014 includes three active learning classrooms in support of Purdue's campus wide, innovative course-redesign initiative. Construction is now underway on the Active Learning Center, which will bring together six science and engineering libraries into a building that will seamlessly integrate learning and classroom spaces in a $79M facility at the very heart of the campus.Libraries faculty and staff also collaborate with disciplinary faculty to develop new approaches for discovering, accessing, and sharing of research publications and data. Purdue Libraries are leaders in the areas of data curation and library publishing services. Accomplishments in data curation include the development of the Data Curation Profiles Toolkit, an instrument for assessing the data needs of faculty researchers. The Purdue University Research Repository (PURR), a Libraries initiative, provides an online, collaborative working space and data-sharing platform to support the data management needs of Purdue researchers and their collaborators.Since 2005, Purdue Libraries has collaborated in interdisciplinary sponsored research on campus with over 100 faculty, as well as partners at other libraries and institutions. The Purdue Libraries and University Press are a founding member of the Library Publishing Coalition (LPC), and are well-known for innovative approaches to partnering with faculty to better disseminate scholarly works created at Purdue and advance Open Access initiatives.Purdue Libraries is an active member of state, regional, national, and international associations and consortia, including the Association of Research Libraries (ARL), the Center for Research Libraries (CRL), the Coalition for Networked Information (CNI), SPARC, the Council on Library and Information Resources (CLIR), the Digital Library Federation (DLF), the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), the International Association of Scientific and Technological University Libraries (IATUL), and the Research Data Alliance (RDA).Purdue Libraries is a founding member of both HathiTrust and DataCite. Purdue was one of four universities that collaborated with Ex Libris, Inc., on its Alma library system, the next generation library management system. Collaboration and partnerships are hallmarks of Purdue Libraries both on and off campus, including partnership with ITaP (Information Technology at Purdue) and the Purdue Office of Research and Partnerships to provide assistance with funder data requirements.Purdue University (http://www.purdue.edu/), located in West Lafayette, Indiana, in the historic Wabash River valley, is one hour from Indianapolis and two hours from Chicago. Renowned for its programs in engineering, science, agriculture, and business, the University has over 38,700 students and 15,000 employees. Purdue is a member of the Association of Public and Landgrant Universities (APLU), the Association of American Universities (AAU), and the Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC). Purdue has the second highest enrollment of international students among public U.S. universities, with 9,988 undergraduate, professional, and graduate students in academic year 2013-2014. The greater Lafayette area(http://www.homeofpurdue.com/) provides diverse cultural, social, and recreational activities.Salary and benefits:Salary commensurate with experience in the context of Purdue University's salary structure.Faculty tenure-track position with a twelve-month appointment. Rank of assistant or associate professor depending on qualifications. Start-up funds in support of research are provided for computer/software/equipment, for travel/professional development, and for a half time graduate assistant for two years. Purdue provides a generous fringe benefit package that includes retirement benefits as well as health, disability and life insurance, 22 annual vacation days, and tuition support for employee, children, and spouse/same sex domestic partner.Purdue University is responsive to the needs of dual career couples.Application process: To apply, please send a resume, cover letter, and the names and contact information of at least three references via email to Carole Tolley, Libraries Human Resources Coordinator, at libhr@purdue.edu. Please place ÒMolecular Plant Sciences Information SpecialistÓ in the subject line of the email. Nominations for the position will be accepted and should be sent to the same email address. Review of applications will continue until the position is filled. Questions may be directed to Carole Tolley at 765-494-2899 or the above email address. A background check will be required for this position.The full position announcement may be found at www.lib.purdue.edu/about/employmentPurdue University is an EEO/AA employer fully committed to achieving a diverse workforce.All individuals, including minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans are encouraged to apply."
