6/30/2015

" The University of Oregon Libraries seeks a knowledgeable, creative, and user-oriented colleague for the position of Art and Architecture Librarian. This position provides the opportunity to participate in a wide range of services and professional responsibilities in a dynamic environment.The Architecture & Allied Arts (AAA) Library's collections primarily support the diverse academic programs associated with the School of Architecture and Allied Arts.  The library's holdings are complemented by collections of art and architecture titles in Knight Library and the UO Portland Library and Learning Commons. Important collections of architectural archives and drawings are housed in the UO Libraries' Special Collections & University Archives. In addition to its 86,000 volumes, the AAA Library holds unique collections of rare books, architectural drawings and models, and artist's books. The AAA Library has 4.0 FTE staff members and several student assistants."

" Required:    American Library Association-accredited Master's Degree in Library/Information Science/Studies in hand by start date    Strong academic background in art history, architecture, or visual arts    Knowledge of art and architecture information resources    Excellent oral and written communication skills    Ability to work collaboratively in a team environment    Ability to support and enhance a diverse learning and working environmentDesired:    Academic library experience    Reading knowledge of a foreign language    Graduate degree in art history, fine arts, arts administration, or design discipline    Experience with technologies used in design disciplines"



"The Art and Architecture Librarian has responsibility for developing collections and services to support scholarly users of information, serving as the primary liaison with the Department of Art, the Department of the History of Art and Architecture, and the Arts and Administration, Product Design, and Digital Arts programs. This position provides reference and research consultation, collection development, and instructional and outreach services in art history, architecture, fine arts, and related disciplines. Service on library and university committees is expected. Other related duties and projects will be assigned. Library faculty members are also encouraged to be professionally active through involvement in regional and national associations, research, or publication. This position is located in the AAA Library, and reports to the head of that department."
