7/15/2015

"Under the supervision of the Dean of Academic Affairs and in collaboration with the Director of Learning Resources and Centralized Library Services Team, the Librarian ensures school library functions and services are appropriate and properly planned, implemented, and managed.  The Librarian assists the school community in use of the library materials and resources through appropriate and meaningful information literacy and instruction programs as well as reference and research support. The librarian assists the school community with use of academic support services and technology including tutoring, assessments, student portals, learning management systems, and others.     Incumbent must assure that the EDMC philosophy: quality services to clients; development, growth, involvement, and recognition of employees; sound economic principles; and environment which is conducive to innovation, positive thinking and expansion - is considered in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of this position.This position will be primarily evening and weekend hours."

"Job Requirements:Knowledge:    Master's Degree in Library, Information Science, or related from an ALA accredited school    At least one year experience working in a post-secondary institution library    Previous experience delivering instruction preferred    Knowledge of subjects taught by Art Institute system    Knowledge of library and educational technologiesSkills:    Strong interpersonal skills    Excellent written and verbal communication skills    Strong presentation skills    Superior organizational, prioritization, and self-motivation skills    Strong computer skillsAbilities:    Work effectively a team member to insure that system and school goals are met    Ability to effectively teach information literacy skills    Comfort level with expanding and contracting sphere of influence as required at times by the role    Ability to frequently lift up to 15 pounds"



"Key Job Elements:    Plan, coordinate, conduct, and assess library and information literacy instruction sessions and programs.    Provide reference and research assistance to school community.     Assist school community use of academic support and technology platforms and services including tutoring, student portal and others.      Author, implement, evaluate and update school library policies and procedures in close collaboration with the school Dean of Academic Affairs, system Director of Learning Resources, and Centralized Library Services Team.     Maintain library in an orderly manner; perform regular inventory, weed materials, and engage in minor catalog updates when requested by Centralized Library Services Team.    Process and maintain print periodicals, tracking receipt and filing claims for missing issues.     Receive, inspect and oversee shelving of materials purchased through Centralized Library Services Team.    Inform Centralized Library Services Team of school community suggested library purchases.    Collaborate with School Dean of Academic Affairs, Institutional Effectiveness staff, and Centralized Library Services Team in compiling and submitting information and reports for both internal and external (accreditation) purposes.    Serve on school committees in order to promote, share, and gather information regarding library and related support services.    Collaborate with school IT to oversee library hardware and software, including AV equipment.    Aid Dean of Academic Affairs in selecting, training, and supervising Library Assistants and Student Library Assistants when applicable.    Administer academic placement and certification tests when applicable.    Conduct long range planning related job function.    Other duties as assigned."
