7/20/2015

"One of ten University of California campuses, the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) is located in Westwood Village, approximately five miles from the Pacific Ocean near Santa Monica. Comprised of the College of Letters and Science and 11 professional schools, the 419-acre campus features 163 buildings. UCLA has more than 4,000 faculty and academic staff and approximately 26,000 employees overall. Founded in 1919, UCLA offers 337 undergraduate and graduate degree programs and has more than 28,000 undergraduates and 12,000 graduate students. Academic excellence, faculty distinction, and a comprehensive curriculum are hallmarks of UCLA, which is a member of the Association of American Universities. Among the faculty are fourteen Nobel Laureates, twelve Rhodes Scholars, ten National Medal of Science winners, a Fields Medal Winner, eleven MacArthur Grant winners, and seventy-eight Guggenheim Fellows. UCLA is California's largest university and is a model for public institutions of higher education. As the seventh largest employer in the region, UCLA generates almost $14 in economic activity for every $1 state taxpayers invest in UCLA and generates an annual $11.9 billion economic impact for the state of California.Consistently ranked among the top 10 academic research libraries in North America, the UCLA Library is comprised of 10 major libraries and 11 library wide departments including the Southern Regional Library Facility, the remote storage facility for the southern UC campuses, all of which report to the University Librarian. In addition, there are 12 affiliated library units located on the campus. There are approximately 105 librarians on the campus, and the UCLA Library has a staff of approximately 200, and approximately 400 - 500 student employees. The Library has an organizational structure that includes the use of teams in conjunction with departments and units. The library collection consists of more than 9 million volumes and more than 78,000 current serial titles and an aggressively expanding electronic resources collection. The Library's annual budget is in excess of $44 million; more than $10 million supports the acquisition of print and digital material, and the library is part of the California Digital Library. The UCLA Library is a member of the Association of Research Libraries (ARL), the Coalition for Networked Information (CNI), the Center for Research Libraries (CRL), the Council on Library and Information Resources (CLIR), International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), and the Scholarly Publishing & Academic Resources Coalition (SPARC).Teaching and Learning Services (TLS) provides community-based leadership and funding to support training, tools, and infrastructure for enterprise-wide reference and instructional services. These services include 24/7 digital reference (a UC-consortial project), online research guides linked to the course management system, and online tutorials. TLS sponsors professional development training, such as workshops, brown-bags, webinars, and other programs open to the whole UCLA community. TLS also manages data collection and evaluation of reference and instructional activities at the UCLA Library by providing oversight of the Summary of Instructional Activities (SIA) and Reference Statistics (Stats) online tools. In addition, TLS facilitates and manages annual events designed for student audiences, such as the Library Prize for Undergraduate Research, Edible Book Festival, and International Games Day."

"Required Qualifications* ALA-accredited Master's Degree in Library or Information Science OR significant graduate-level coursework toward such a degree OR equivalent education and experience (subject expertise combined with professional library education and/or experience).* Minimum of five (5) years of professional experience in an academic research environment.* Excellent written and verbal communication skills in English and effective interpersonal skills.* Ability to work with staff, students, and faculty from diverse cultural backgrounds and in a dynamic and complex environment within a large organization.* Excellent management skills, including ability to mobilize a student workforce effectively.* Strong customer service orientation.* Capacity to thrive in the exciting, ambiguous, future-oriented environment of a world-class research institution and to respond effectively and flexibly to changing needs and priorities.* Ability to initiate and maintain cooperative working relationships with co-workers, supervisors, and managers.* Demonstrated commitment to professional issues, evidenced through interest in local or national committee work, research, publication, etc.* Ability to follow directions from supervisors (and to provide clear directions to staff and student employees).* Ability to get to work reliably and on time and to be present in the workplace during normal working hours.Desired Qualifications* Demonstrated project management experience.* Experience overseeing successful peer-to-peer services in an academic environment.* Experience with design, provision, and evaluation of instruction for undergraduate students, including experience providing both positive and corrective feedback.* Prior experience organizing public events and/exhibits.* Experience hiring and training student employees."



"Reporting to the Director of Teaching and Learning Services, the incumbent is responsible for the following duties:Peer-to-Peer Inquiry Services Supervision* Supervise undergraduate and graduate student Inquiry Specialists who provide peer-to-peer research and writing assistance, represent the library at outreach events, and assist with events, special projects, and library instruction sessions.* In collaboration with key colleagues across the library organization, lead the design and delivery of training to Inquiry Specialists.* Measure impact of the Inquiry Specialists program, reporting out regularly to the director of TLS.* Assist with the design, development, implementation, promotion, and assessment of the library's research consultation services.* In the course of providing oversight to Inquiry Specialists, provide scheduled and drop-in research consultation services, in person, by phone, and online.Public Programs, Events, and Exhibits in Powell Library* Provide leadership and project management of ongoing public programming held in Powell Library, working closely with the Manager of Library Public Programs to ensure that events, exhibits, and other programming are well aligned with library's mission and strategic priorities. Provide constructive feedback on proposals for events, exhibits, or other programming that need better alignment in order to be accepted.* Meet regularly with the Manager of Library Public Programs to ensure that the timing and nature of Powell events fit within the scope and timeline of UCLA Library events and activities; get early, proactive project guidance with an eye to identifying staffing, logistical, and promotional needs; and identify relevant internal library partners such as UCLA Library Development.* Work with the Director of Library Communications to develop events outreach/promotion, and to ensure that the timing and nature of Powell exhibits fit within the scope and timeline of UCLA Library exhibits.* Assist with the planning, organizing, implementing, and publicizing of new Teaching and Learning Services initiatives, projects, programs, events, and other learning opportunities including the Edible Books Festival, and the Library Prize for Undergraduate Research.* Assist the Director and Coordinator of Teaching and Learning Services with TLS community building efforts, providing leadership and fostering enterprise-wide conversations about innovative practice.Teaching, Consulting, and Instructional Design* Assist with the design, development, implementation, and assessment of instructional services, including face-to-face, hybrid, and online learning opportunities, instruction sessions and workshops, and other innovative approaches to developing student research skills.* Consult with subject librarians, faculty, and teaching assistants in developing, teaching, and integrating research skills instruction with the undergraduate curricula.* Work closely with one or more Freshman Clusters instructional teams, including faculty and teaching assistants, to incorporate research skills instruction and library collections into the curriculum for first-year students."
