7/23/2015

"Department: Scholarly Communication and Licensing (SCL) Rank and Salary: Associate Librarian - Librarian ($62,323 - $93,083) Position Availability: Immediately  Application deadline for first consideration: August 10, 2015.Description of Institution and Library One of ten University of California campuses, the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) is located in Westwood Village, approximately five miles from the Pacific Ocean near Santa Monica. Comprised of the College of Letters and Science and 11 professional schools, the 419-acre campus features 163 buildings. UCLA has more than 4,000 faculty and academic staff and approximately 26,000 employees overall. Founded in 1919, UCLA offers 337 undergraduate and graduate degree programs and has more than 28,000 undergraduates and 12,000 graduate students. Academic excellence, faculty distinction, and a comprehensive curriculum are hallmarks of UCLA, which is a member of the Association of American Universities. Among the faculty are fourteen Nobel Laureates, twelve Rhodes Scholars, ten National Medal of Science winners, a Fields Medal Winner, eleven MacArthur Grant winners, and seventy-eight Guggenheim Fellows. UCLA is California's largest university and is a model for public institutions of higher education. As the seventh largest employer in the region, UCLA generates almost $14 in economic activity for every $1 state taxpayers invest in UCLA and generates an annual $11.9 billion economic impact for the state of California. Consistently ranked among the top 10 academic research libraries in North America, the UCLA Library is comprised of 10 major libraries and 11 library wide departments including the Southern Regional Library Facility, the remote storage facility for the southern UC campuses, all of which report to the University Librarian. In addition, there are 12 affiliated library units located on the campus. There are approximately 105 librarians on the campus, and the UCLA Library has a staff of approximately 200, and approximately 400 - 500 student employees. The Library has an organizational structure that includes the use of teams in conjunction with departments and units. The library collection consists of more than 9 million volumes and more than 78,000 current serial titles and an aggressively expanding electronic resources collection. The Library's annual budget is in excess of $44 million; more than $10 million supports the acquisition of print and digital material, and the library is part of the California Digital Library. The UCLA Library is a member of the Association of Research Libraries (ARL), the Coalition for Networked Information (CNI), the Center for Research Libraries (CRL), the Council on Library and Information Resources (CLIR), International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), and the Scholarly Publishing & Academic Resources Coalition (SPARC). The Scholarly Communication and Licensing (SCL) unit develops strategic directions for scholarly communication programs and delivers electronic and digital collection services to the UCLA community. Working closely with the Associate University Librarian for Collection Management and Scholarly Communication, SCL oversees the growth of the scholarly communication programs and services at UCLA by providing outreach and instruction to faculty related to intellectual property issues, and to ensure the broadest dissemination and preservation of the scholarly record affecting libraries, archives, and cultural memory institutions. The unit oversees an enterprise-wide infrastructure for electronic resource management, including the selection, acquisition, licensing, access, and ongoing maintenance of electronic library collections. SCL also administers UCLA's web archiving initiative, facilitates campus-wide participation in eScholarship, manages commercial licensing, supervises mass digitization efforts, and advises on permissions and rights metadata for the UCLA Library.The UCLA Library seeks a dynamic, energetic, innovative leader to join its Scholarly Communication and Licensing (SCL) team as UCLA's Scholarly Communication Librarian. Reporting to the Head of SCL, the successful candidate will lead efforts to design systematic and sustainable approaches to outreach, and design new services that support the broadest possible dissemination of scholarly output. The Scholarly Communication Librarian will work closely with faculty, researchers, students, staff, and librarians to assist in scholarly communication endeavors initiated by the Library and to that end, will develop educational materials and instructional sessions and programs. The Scholarly Communication Librarian will liaise with campus partners on the development of targeted outreach and programs that promote scholarly communication, open access, and develop open education strategies to further the campus mission of research, teaching, and public service.Position DutiesReporting to the Head of SCL, the incumbent is responsible for the following duties: _ In coordination with SCL colleagues, develops educational programs for UCLA faculty, researchers, students, and staff on open access, alternative publishing models, open educational resources, data management, and other issues related to scholarly communication. _ Consults with individuals and groups on campus about the retention of intellectual property rights and the open publishing options available to them. _ Provides campus-wide advocacy for the UC Faculty Open Access Policy.  _ Advises faculty, researchers and students on copyright, authors' rights, and publishing agreements. _ Conducts outreach to faculty and departments in collaboration with liaison librarians.  _ Develops and implements educational programs to increase awareness of various scholarly communication topics and themes. _ Supports ongoing scholarly communication education and informational sessions. _ Provides periodic assessments of the campus environment with regard to scholarly communication issues; works to fill in the gaps around these matters, targeting specific groups, research centers, and departments. _ Serves as a statewide representative to scholarly communication-related groups and ad hoc committees as needed. _ Engages with the scholarly community both within and outside the university in order to improve awareness and advocate for open access-related efforts and legislation. _ Participates as an active member of the Library's Scholarly Communication Steering Committee and contributes to ongoing events and programs, such as the Affordable Course Materials Initiative, Open Access Week, and Fair Use Week. _ Establishes effective assessment tools to help measure and track success for outreach and educational programs. _ Stays current with developments in data curation and management, copyright, open access, scholarly publishing, open educational resource initiatives, etc. _ Monitors scholarly communication trends and developments and serves as one of the campus liaisons to national efforts in this area, such as SPARC and HathiTrust. _ Manages and coordinates SCL's social media accounts to publicize activities and current events to colleagues. _ Supports other unit responsibilities as needed.General InformationProfessional librarians at UCLA are academic appointees. Librarians at UCLA are represented by an exclusive bargaining agent, University Council - American Federation of Teachers (UC-AFT). They are entitled to appropriate professional leave, two days per month of vacation leave, one day per month of sick leave, and all other benefits granted to non-faculty academic personnel. The University has an excellent retirement system and sponsors a variety of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans in addition to other benefits. Relocation assistance provided.Appointees to the librarian series at UC shall have professional backgrounds that demonstrate a high degree of creativity, teamwork, and flexibility. Such background will normally include a professional degree from an ALA-accredited library and information science graduate program. In addition to professional competence and quality of service within the library in the primary job, advancement in the librarian series requires professional involvement and contributions outside of the library, and/or university and community service, and/or scholarly activities. Candidates must show evidence or promise of such contributions.Candidates applying by August 10, 2015 will be given first consideration for this position. UCLA welcomes and encourages diversity and seeks applications and nominations from women and minorities. UCLA seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the people of California, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to offer our students richly varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status. For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy see: UC Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action Policy at http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmActEmployment is contingent upon completion of satisfactory background investigation.Visit the UCLA Library Employment and Human Resources website at: http://library.ucla.edu/about/employment-human-resources.RequirementsDocumentsCover Letter - Describing qualifications and experience.Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V. detailing education and relevant experience.References - Names and contact information for three professional references, including current or previous supervisor; contact information only."

"Required Qualifications_ ALA-accredited Master's Degree in Library or Information Science OR significant graduate-level coursework toward such a degree OR equivalent education and experience (subject expertise combined with professional library education and/or experience). _ Demonstrated evidence of leadership, entrepreneurship and initiative. _ Strong interpersonal skills with the ability to establish positive and productive collaborations with faculty, researchers, students and librarians. _ Experience in leading and designing outreach programs and effectively communicating with faculty, researchers, students, librarians and staff.  _ Demonstrated knowledge of copyright and related issues as they support the creation and dissemination of scholarship, such as author's rights, open access, archiving rights, institutional repositories, and scholarly publishing, and knowledge of the associated legal and policy issues. _ Ability to effectively articulate complex concepts, such as copyright, fair use, and open access as they relate to the academic endeavor. _ Ability to work collegially with faculty, researchers, students, and staff in a group or individual setting. _ Willingness to lead and work effectively as part of a team. _ Excellent oral and written communication skills, including creating and delivering presentations. _ Ability to think creatively, make decisions quickly, and work productively in a rapidly changing environment. _ Ability to adjust priorities, take initiative, set goals, manage projects and time wisely, and make quick and effective decisions.  _ Ability to initiate and maintain cooperative working relationships with co-workers, supervisors, and managers. _ Ability to work harmoniously and as a team player, thrive in a team-based environment, and skill in fostering teamwork among others. _ Ability to follow directions from supervisors (and to provide clear directions to staff and student employees). _ Ability to get to work reliably and on time and to be present in the workplace during normal working hours.Desired Qualifications_ Demonstrated experience in project management. _ Experience preparing and delivering copyright education and instruction. _ Demonstrated evidence of contributions to the profession through scholarly publications and/or presentations to professional organizations."
