8/11/2015

"The Literatures and Humanities Librarian is a member of the Content Development Department dedicated to the stewardship of the University of Kansas Libraries' collections in the humanities, social sciences, and sciences.  Members of the Content Development team work collaboratively manage the development and review of the Libraries' collections to support University initiatives. The incumbent will oversee collections supporting the research and curricular needs of faculty, staff, and students in English and American literature, as well as other assigned disciplines in the humanities and/or social sciences.  The successful candidate will be proactive in evaluating and promoting innovative approaches to developing collections across all disciplines.   Reporting to the Head of Content Development in the Content and Access Services Division, the librarian will provide in-depth research consultations and information literacy workshops in English and American literature and other areas of the humanities.The Literatures and Humanities Librarian stewards print collections in Watson Library at the University of Kansas and develops resources in various electronic formats and delivery methods.  The collection covers all aspects and areas of English and American Literature, including, but not limited to, biography, memoirs, letters, poetry, drama, prose, oratory, diaries, essays, satire, folk literature, criticism, literary history, aesthetics, theory, and authorship from the Anglo-Saxon period to the present.   This is a full time, 12-month, Unclassified Academic Staff position. See Faculty Handbook on the following KU website for the criteria: https://documents.ku.edu/policies/provost/FacultyandUnclassifiedStaffHandbook.pdf  See Discipline Expectations for additional details: https://lib.drupal.ku.edu/sites/lib.drupal.ku.edu/files/docs/LFPA/lcpt/discexpjuly14.pdfThe University of Kansas Libraries is especially interested in hiring faculty members who can contribute to our key campus-wide strategic initiative: Harnessing Information, Multiplying Knowledge. For more information, see http://www.provost.ku.edu/planning/themes/"

"Required: 1.Master's or advanced degree by date of appointment.2.Effective communication skills as demonstrated in the candidate's application materials and through the interview process.1.Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program.2.Advanced degree in English or significant experience working with collections in English.3.Experience working in an academic or research library.4.Experience building and maintaining scholarly collections in all formats in English and American literature.5.Demonstrated ability to work collegially and collaboratively with colleagues in a team environment.6.Experience in developing and assisting faculty and instructors in providing instructional sessions to meet the objectives of course goals.7.Reading proficiency in one or more of the major European languages."



"80 - 90% Professional Responsibilities*Builds, evaluates, and assesses assigned collections through review and selection of materials related to English and American literature and other assigned disciplines in all formats.  Maintains an awareness of new faculty curricular needs and changes in programs and faculty research in assigned subject disciplines.   Monitors approval plans for relevancy of receipts and adjust profiles as necessary.  Carefully expends fund allocations throughout the fiscal year.  Keeps abreast of policies and technical procedures related to acquiring materials.  Updates collection policies for assigned subjects.  Works with donors to accept and review in-kind gifts that support current programs.*Provides instruction and research support through research sessions, workshops, and courses in a variety of areas within the humanities. Uses appropriate tools and strategies across multiple modes of delivery.  Actively contributes to the design of instructional programming and outreach from the Libraries.*Communicates issues implicit in scholarly communication and open access in discussions with colleagues within and beyond the KU community.  Attends training and events designed and developed to promote understanding of the best practices in scholarly communication.*Provides general Libraries support for research and instruction in the digital humanities and facilitates skills acquisition for the integration of digital humanities tools and resources into research and learning.*Advances the Libraries' priorities and strategic directions through active participation in pursuits such as cross-functional initiatives, cross-operational teams, and/or task forces. 5 - 10% Research*Contributes to the profession's collective knowledge by engaging in scholarly research activities.5 - 10% Service*Engages in service to the Libraries, the University, and to professional organizations by participating in committee work, projects, and contributory achievements."
