8/13/2015

"TITLE:  Research & Instruction Librarian (temporary, through June 30, 2016)LOCATION:  University of Washington Bothell and Cascadia College Campus LibraryTHE LIBRARIES  Serving three campuses, the University of Washington Libraries is one of the largest and most innovative libraries in North America with collections exceeding 8 million volumes, over 500,000 electronic books, more than 120,000 currently received journal titles, as well as millions of scholarly resources in other formats. Beyond the strength of local collections and digital resources, the Libraries is recognized for its excellent service, innovative learning and research spaces, faculty partnerships, global reach, extensive assessment efforts and  diverse award-winning staff. The Libraries plays a significant leadership role regionally as a member in the groundbreaking Orbis Cascade Alliance and throughout the profession as evidenced by the number of its staff selected for competitive leadership programs and honored by professional association lifetime achievement awards.UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON BOTHELL AND CASCADIA COLLEGE LIBRARY  http://library.uwb.eduThe University of Washington Libraries serves the students, faculty, and staff of Cascadia College and the University of Washington Bothell at their co-located campus in Bothell, located 18 miles north of downtown Seattle. UW Bothell currently offers programs in Business; Computing and Software Systems; Educational Studies; Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences; Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics; and Nursing and Health Studies.  More information on UW Bothell and its programs can be found at http://www.uwb.edu.  Cascadia College offers a wide range of Associate degrees and certificates, and will launch a new Bachelor of Applied Science in Sustainable Practices in Fall 2015.  More about Cascadia College can be found here:  http://www.cascadia.edu/ .   Information about the Library's Equity, Diversity and Social Justice program is available here: http://libguides.uwb.edu/libraryEDSJteam THE POSITIONUnder the general direction of the Head of Teaching and Learning, this position will partner with colleagues within the Library and across the campus to develop, deliver, and assess in-person and online instruction that integrates information literacy into the curriculum, and will utilize learning technologies and pedagogies in support of student learning."

"Required*	Graduate degree from a program accredited by the American Library Association or an equivalent graduate library science/information studies degree.*	Demonstrated commitment to diversity and understanding of the contributions a diverse workforce brings to the workplace.Preferred*	Experience or demonstrated knowledge in the provision of instruction services in a college or university setting is highly desirable.  Familiarity with information literacy concepts, trends, pedagogies, and assessment.*	Experience or demonstrated knowledge of current and emerging instructional technologies and online learning pedagogies in support of hybrid and online instruction.*	Experience or demonstrated knowledge in the provision of reference services to college or university students, in person and online.  Strong user centered public service philosophy.*	Experience or demonstrated knowledge in working with students from diverse backgrounds, interests, and abilities who possess a wide range of educational goals.  *	Ability to work in a team environment where consultation, flexibility, creativity, collaboration, and cooperation are essential.  Commitment to continually seeking improvement in services, collections, and facilities.  *	Excellent interpersonal and communication skills."

"Information Literacy,Reference Services"

"SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES*	Provides classroom and online instruction for targeted courses within the Library's integrated information literacy curriculum at the lower division, including College 101 and English 102 at Cascadia College, and Discovery Core and Research Writing classes in the first year program at UW Bothell.  May serve as a liaison to faculty in discipline areas.*	In consultation with the Head of Collections, may select print and electronic materials for the undergraduate and graduate curricula, informed by the larger research collections across the UW Libraries and regional consortia. Includes collaborative tri-campus efforts with counterpart colleagues at UW Seattle and UW Tacoma to meet collection needs for each campus. *	In consultation with the Head of Research Services, will provide assistance for a range of research inquiries in the Library's Information Commons and online through the UW Libraries' email and chat reference services. *	Occasional evening and weekend reference and instruction work will be required."
