8/14/2015

"This position is intended for individuals who are currently pursuing an advanced degree in Library and Information Science. The successful candidate will develop and lead one-time and on-going projects in the Fine Arts and Architecture Library. Additionally, there may be opportunities to work with innovative technologies and collections like our 3d printing services, modeling/design software, audio and visual recording studios, data visualization projects, and our new materials collection.Reference work on the Fine Arts and Architecture and Knowledge Commons desks will be another essential part of this job, as well as excellent preparation for a career in the field."

"_ Education/Work Experience: Preference will be given to a student working toward a Master's in Library Science (or similar) degree, or who has equivalent library work experience._ Academic background in visual arts, performing arts, art history, architecture, planning, history, film, game design, material science or communication._ Experience with digital image scanning, graphic design, 3d modeling, and/or multimedia editing software (such as Adobe CS suite, Final Cut Pro, etc.).This position may require independent interactions with full-time library colleagues, as well as individuals and organizations on campus and in regional arts, architecture, and planning communities. The staff member will serve as an official representative of the University of Utah Marriott Library in these instances, requiring knowledgeable, confident, and professional interactions.The following skills and traits will help the part-time staff member to thrive in this position:* A mind for organization, attention to detail, and creative problem-solving.* Willingness to share ideas, offer opinions, and lead initiatives.* Familiarity with basic art, music, and architecture concepts.* Effective communication skills; clear and articulate writing and speaking.* Friendly and approachable demeanor while interacting with library visitors.* Ability to work independently while reaching toward a common, team goal."

"Cataloging,Collection Development,Reference Services"

"Projects may include working with physical and digital collections, overseeing reference desk scheduling, creating online learning tools, conducting original research, and cultivating relationships with members of the University and off-campus communities.The person hired will also staff the Fine Arts and Architecture reference desk in the early evenings a few days a week, and will be put into rotation as the sole librarian at the Knowledge Commons Service Desk on Saturday afternoons. Training will be provided."
