10/11/2010

"The E-Research and Digital Scholarship Services Unit is being formed within the Collection Development Department to capitalize on digital services offered locally and throughout the UC system to assist in the research, publication, and teaching missions of the University. The Unit will perform outreach, advertise, educate, and collaborate with faculty and researchers directly, and through the assistance and education of subject liaisons across all library departments."





"Outreach, Collection Development, Digital Research Coordination, Support, and Outreach"

"Plays a central role in developing digital collections and services for the newly renovated Research Library and other campus libraries. Cultivates print collections in the Research Library that sustain digital tools, collections, and services for humanities and social sciences research. Promotes use of existing digital collections and scholarly tools at UCLA. Works closely with Digital Humanities and Social Sciences faculty and students in supporting their e-research and teaching needs, and in developing new research projects. Acts as key liaison for the new Digital Cultural Mapping minor at UCLA. Keeps abreast of new modes of research in the Humanities and Social Sciences. Provides demonstrations of currently mature Digital Humanities resources to interested faculty, staff, librarians, the research community, and library supporters. Links to major digital projects at UCLA are available at www.idre.ucla.edu/hasis/research/default.htm. Works closely with the AUL for Digital Initiatives and Information Technology, the Digital Library Program, Digital Collections Services, and other library partners in providing innovative and emerging new technologies for faculty and student use in the Research Library Research Commons, Digital Sandbox, Laboratory for Digital Cultural Heritage, and other library locations. Links faculty and students with librarians and technologists in supporting digital scholarship, developing new research projects, and engaging in fundraising to support those activities. Provides vision and strategic leadership as well as coordination of services for the Research Library Research Commons and digital lab space. Works closely with others throughout the UCLA Library system to develop robust digital collections, services, and programs for our faculty and students in data visualizationGIS, maps, statistics, and multimedia. Coordinates with maps specialists and the project manager on the Historical Maps Digitization Project in CRIS. Works closely with the Digital Library Program, Library IT, Library Preservation, and other specialists to meet collection development, data storage, preservation, stewardship, and access challenges related to digital content creation and knowledge management. Develops additional capacity among the librarians and staff to support work in digital scholarship through instruction, training, demonstrations, lectures, and workshops. Partners with other campus stakeholders, such as the Center for Digital Humanities, the Institute for Digital Research and Education-Humanities, Arts, Social and Information Sciences (IDRE-HASIS), the Institute for Social Research, Academic Technology Services, and various research centers to develop robust digital scholarship programs at UCLA and to position the library as central to those programs. Works closely with members of Access Services, CRIS, the East Asian Library, the Arts and Music Libraries, and other library stakeholders in developing and implementing a robust and innovative new public services package to support digital scholarship activities in the Research Library. Serves as the Research Librarys point person for digital scholarship. Partners with other leading libraries nationally and internationally in developing new digital scholarship initiatives and programs. Develops a national reputation for the UCLA Library in these areas. Develops and manages print and electronic collections for a humanities or social sciences subject area. Acts as liaison to campus departments and/or programs related to collecting subject area. Participates actively in scholarly communication instruction, projects, and outreach at UCLA and more broadly."
