4/10/2012

"We are looking for a creative, technically-grounded, and visionary person who will serve as an advisor, advocate, and implementer for digital humanities at Yale University Library. The successful candidate must have a deep interest in the artifacts of scholarship?such as books, manuscripts, or maps?and a commitment to a vibrant future for the humanities. Working closely with the University's Academic IT Solutions unit, technology experts from across the Library system, subject specialist librarians, and the Director of Undergraduate Research Education and Outreach, the Librarian for Digital Humanities Research will provide the vision and strategic leadership for incorporating current and future technologies into the research activities of the humanities community at Yale University. The incumbent will report to the Head of Humanities Collections and Research Education (HCRE) and as part of that team may serve as the Library's liaison to one or more humanities departments. This is an evolving specialization in librarianship, one that requires a combination of strong academic background in the humanities with technical knowledge, curiosity about how technology is affecting research, and enthusiasm for collaborating with students, faculty, and staff colleagues in an exciting and dynamic intellectual environment. We are seeking candidates with a keen interest in text mining and analysis, natural language processing, geospatial analysis, data visualization, and image analysis. We welcome applications from those who may not have an exceptional degree of technical skill so long as their background in the humanities and demonstrated interest in research technologies and digital resources are strong. Representative Job Summary Yale University librarians work in libraries across the Central, West, Medical, and Science campuses, to build, manage, and provide access to a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity. They demonstrate flexibility, creativity, and imagination in their work and adapt to and help shape a continuously evolving work environment. Yale librarians provide consistently high quality service to the University, and help meet the needs of the local, national, and international teaching and research communities. Representative Responsibilities The Librarian 1 is the beginning rank and is expected to demonstrate excellence in meeting the position responsibilities, as defined by the job description and annual goals. Begin to fulfill the criteria for service to the library, university, and/or community. Begin to fulfill the criteria for professional contributions."

"A graduate degree in a humanities discipline and demonstrated knowledge in the field of digital humanities. Appointment at the Librarian II level requires a minimum of 2 years of professional experience and demonstrated professional accomplishment. Appointment at the Librarian III level requires a minimum of 5 years of professional experience. A deep understanding of the research process and knowledge of the ways that new technologies are affecting the production of scholarship in the humanities, as distinct from other fields. Excellent interpersonal and team collaboration skills and the ability to work effectively in a fast-paced, rapidly changing and ambiguous environment are required. The successful applicant will be technically grounded and will have demonstrated knowledge of most of the following. Mastery of at least one of the following is required: * Text-mining, encoding, and analysis tools and methods * GIS tools and methods (e.g. OSGeo Software Projects, ESRI's ArcGIS suite, OGC data standards, and FGDC Metadata Standards) * Network analysis (familiarity with graph theory and use of analytical tools, e.g. GEPHI)"

"Preferred Education, Skills and Experience 1. An MLIS or MIS from an ALA-accredited program of information science. 2. Experience with statistical analysis tools (e.g. R, SPSS, Stata, LIWC, and Nvivo) 3. Experience with data visualization tools and methods 4. Experience with relational databases (e.g. MySQL) 5. Experience with server-side web-development (e.g. PERL, PHP, java, javascript, ASP) 6. Experience with UNIX/Linux"



"The Librarian for Digital Humanities Research will promote the advancement of the use of digital technologies and resources for humanities research, teaching, and intellectual engagement. Specific activities may include: · Building digital collections as scholarly or teaching resources · Using digital collections and analytical tools to generate new intellectual products · Analyzing humanities collections, data, or research processes · Offering digital humanities training · Collaborating with other Yale digital research and teaching specialists · Researching new digital humanities technologies and promoting them, as appropriate, to Yale faculty, students, and staff The Librarian for Digital Humanities Research will also serve on select Library-wide committees, engage in research and service to meet the library requirements for promotion, and may assume appropriate collection development responsibilities based on the successful candidate's academic background."
