8/15/2012

"New York University's Digital Studio supports the digital scholarship, research, and teaching of the NYU community. Technology Specialists from NYU Libraries and NYU Information Technology Services work together at the Digital Studio to provide consultation, training, and tools for multimedia production and sharing, file storage and management, digital scholarship, digital project planning and management, copyright and fair use, digital publishing, teaching and learning projects, and learning management tools. In this dynamic, client-oriented environment, we keep abreast of research, teaching, and learning technology developments in higher education and implement services to benefit the global NYU community."

"Bachelor's degree and 3 years relevant experience or an equivalent combination. Must include: good interpersonal skills, good oral and written communication, client service experience and orientation, experience supporting information technology and training, interest in and a strong desire to learn about new information technologies, interest in the evolving use of technology for scholarship and teaching in higher education, project management experience, ability to work both collaboratively and independently, willingness to undertake responsibility. Experience in one of the following areas: media production, website design, digital humanities, instructional design."

"Bachelor's degree and 3 years relevant experience or an equivalent combination. Must include: good interpersonal skills, good oral and written communication, client service experience and orientation, experience supporting information technology and training, interest in and a strong desire to learn about new information technologies, interest in the evolving use of technology for scholarship and teaching in higher education, project management experience, ability to work both collaboratively and independently, willingness to undertake responsibility. Experience in one of the following areas: media production, website design, digital humanities, instructional design."



"The Digital Studio Technology Specialist will partner with other technology specialists and librarians to create a holistic service environment for clients. Consultation: Consult with scholars in their use of Digital Studio and other IT services for research and teaching. Facility Management: Oversee the Digital Studio facility (workstations, student staffing, documentation of procedures, staff training initiatives, etc.). Develop a technology environment conducive to effective client work by evaluating user needs and planning and implementing processes and systems to meet those needs. Make recommendations for the purchase of hardware and software. Think creatively about the configuration of workstations, work spaces, workflows, etc. Purchase, and supervise installation of hardware, software, and peripherals and ensure their proper function. Supervise Digital Studio student support staff including hiring, training, and evaluating performance. Identify and prioritize staff assignments to ensure deadlines are met and review work for accuracy. Service Development and Leadership: Work closely with scholars and other Libraries and ITS staff to evaluate current technology, ascertain the academic technology needs of the University, and develop and support standardized, core technology and person-to-person services for research and teaching. Keep informed about trends in technology use in higher education, and research and test emerging information technologies for use at NYU. Support and lead the development of new tools and services, and act as service lead for new and existing services. Work as part of a newly formed team to develop and provide services supporting digital scholarship. This is a new and growing service area in NYU Libraries. Training: Develop and deliver training programs related to Digital Studio services. Identify training needs, arrange for instructors, facilities and materials, as required. Consult with faculty, researchers, and staff on training interests and opportunities. Note: The Digital Studio open hours will be expanding as the service evolves. The successful applicant will be willing to work possible evening and weekend hours."
