11/1/2012

"The Pennsylvania State University Libraries seeks creative, forward-thinking individuals to apply for the full-time, three-year appointment as Digital Scholarship Research Coordinator. This faculty librarian will play a critical role in project and service development to strengthen digital scholarship at Penn State. The successful candidate will be conversant with a variety of pertinent technologies and platforms and have first-hand knowledge of, and experience in, their applications for research. The Digital Scholarship Research Coordinator will have a passion for interdisciplinary, collaborative projects; value education through experimentation and prototyping; and understand the importance of humanities and social sciences scholarship and its publics. This is a fixed-term (multi-year), non-tenure track, 3-year appointment based at the University Park campus in the Paterno and Pattee Libraries. It carries the rank of Assistant Librarian. The position reports to the Associate Director for the Center for Humanities and Information in the University Libraries and is jointly funded by the Libraries and the College of the Liberal Arts. The Digital Scholarship Research Coordinator will oversee digital scholarship projects originating in the College of the Liberal Arts, ensuring that researchers have the technical and intellectual support (from the Libraries or other relevant campus units) to carry out and complete their work. This position is expected to raise the profile of digital scholarship in the humanities and social sciences at Penn State and to sustain the digital scholarship community through outreach and events such as workshops and speaker series. The successful candidate will be able to communicate, translate, and share ideas and concepts effectively across diverse, interdisciplinary audiences. The Digital Scholarship Research Coordinator will maintain currency in the field and may pursue their own research to do so. The person in this role will engage in national and/or international initiatives or other professional activities promoting the development of a shared infrastructure."

"* Advanced degree in a humanities or social sciences field. * Demonstrated proficiency with one or more technologies commonly used in digital humanities and/or social science projects, such as database design and development, XML-encoding, GIS, data visualization, topic modeling, or social network analysis. * Experience with development and management of projects, grants, and/or budgets. * Experience teaching or leading workshops on digital scholarship tools and/or methods to faculty and students. * Experience working collaboratively with other scholars and/or with IT professionals on projects related to digital scholarship. * Excellent communication and presentation skills."

"* PhD in a humanities or social sciences field. * Demonstrated ability to build and engage an active intellectual community. * Personal research experience with tools and approaches in the digital humanities or social sciences. * Familiarity with research library services and objectives, including scholarly communication issues and assessment practices. * Familiarity with service and program development and implementation. * Record of professional presentations and/or publications."



"* Collaborates within the University Libraries and the College of the Liberal Arts to build community and promote digital scholarship across Penn State. * Develops and conducts training, group instruction, and workshops, both individually and collaboratively, on digital scholarship research methods, tools, platforms, and best practices. * Evaluates existing and emerging tools and technologies to inform decision-making around technology and platform support, and to identify potential uses in humanities and/or social science research. Prototypes demonstration projects and/or implements tools for use by others. * Collaborates with colleagues in the Libraries, Liberal Arts, and Information Technology Services to help ensure harmony among various technology infrastructures and needs. * Provides consultation and, where appropriate, technical support for digital scholarship projects, including implementation of tools and/or technology, to help researchers achieve their goals."
