5/31/2013

"The Rutgers University Libraries seek a motivated, innovative, and service-oriented librarian to fill the position of Digital Humanities Librarian on the New Brunswick campus of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey."

"A Master's degree in Library or Information Sciences from an ALA-accredited institution or its equivalent; fluency in Italian and/or French; and experience with digital projects and humanities education and research are required. An advanced degree in Romance languages or literature; demonstrated knowledge of XML, TEI, MODS, METS, GIS or other formats and technologies supporting humanities research; library experience, including collection development and public services related to the humanities; and proficiency in additional languages are preferred. The successful candidate will possess excellent communication and interpersonal skills and the ability to work collegially in a team-oriented environment. Demonstrated commitment to fostering diversity is required. Candidates who have had successful experience in the design and delivery of services for diverse populations will be given preference. The successful candidate must be eligible to work in the United States."





"* Provide leadership and instruction within the Libraries on the creation and curation of digital objects for the humanities in all formats, fostering collaboration among scholars, technologists, and information specialists. * Utilize the infrastructure of RUcore (Rutgers Community Repository) to archive, preserve, and present digital resources. * Collaborate with campus stakeholders to integrate digital resources, methodologies, technologies, and analytical tools in the humanities disciplines. * Partner with faculty and library subject specialists to incorporate digitized and born-digital resources into humanities research and teaching activities. * Engage and collaborate actively as liaison to students, faculty and staff of the departments of Italian, French, and Comparative Literature, providing instruction and research consultations, and developing print and digital collections in support of teaching and research. * Participate and teach in a proactive user education program and provide a full range of in-person and virtual reference service. This tenure-track position reports to the Associate University Librarian for Research & Instructional Services and is a member of the New Brunswick Libraries Faculty, a team of librarians committed to providing first-rate public services to a diverse academic community. The successful candidate must demonstrate a commitment to continual professional development through scholarly research including publications, presentations and participation and leadership in the work of relevant professional associations."
