6/18/2013

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill University Library seeks a creative, forward-thinking, innovative individual for the position of Digital Scholarship Librarian in the Carolina Digital Library and Archives (CDLA) (http://cdla.unc.edu). The Digital Scholarship Librarian will provide sustainable and scalable services within the Library and on campus that facilitate the creation and dissemination of online digital content and new knowledge in digital form, focusing heavily on the humanities disciplines.

The successful candidate will bring a sense of inquisitiveness and strong problem-solving skills to the position, along with an aptitude for strategic thinking and sustainability planning, and a commitment to advancing the state of the art in digital scholarship in the humanities. The Digital Scholarship Librarian will manage a portfolio of digital scholarship (including digital humanities), digital collections, and library technology projects, in close collaboration with faculty, campus partners, and within the Library. Within the Library, the Digital Scholarship Librarian will actively partner with other CDLA staff, subject librarians, and staff from other Library departments such as Library and Information Technology and Special Collections.

The individual in this position will work with department and Library colleagues to grow, enhance, and manage a suite of tools and services that promote sustainable and scalable digital scholarship and digital collections. Activities performed in support of these tools and services may include development and management of faculty digital research projects and library digital collections; teaching workshops on technology tools that support the research process and dissemination of research products; contributing to the design and implementation of library technology infrastructure for digital scholarship; participating in the identification of content and preparing data for ingest into digital repositories in use within the Library using appropriate data processing technologies; working with subject librarians and faculty to bring digital scholarship methods and digital library collections into courses through instruction and other means; engaging with professional and campus initiatives to advance new and emerging modes of digital scholarship and scholarly communication; and assessment and evaluation of campus digital scholarship needs and implemented services and projects. This individual will also keep up with developments in the digital library and digital scholarship fields and strategically apply these developments to his or her own work, and seek ways of sharing that work with others on campus and in the profession.

Qualifications

Required:
ALA-accredited master's degree in library or information science or other advanced degree in a humanities field, with coursework in or substantive experience with digital content and digital scholarship issues. Minimum 3 years of experience in developing and managing library digital collections or digital scholarly initiatives that effectively balance immediate needs with sustainability and scalability. Demonstrated technical skills in areas related to digital libraries and digital scholarship, success in matching technical solutions to project needs, and ability to quickly learn new tools and technologies. Keen ongoing awareness of trends in digital libraries and digital scholarship, and willingness to partner with others to manage their application to disciplines of interest. Knowledge of metadata formats commonly used in digital libraries and digital humanities. Substantive record of working collaboratively on digital collections or digital scholarship initiatives. Demonstrated aptitude for learning on the job and creative problem solving. Evidence of ability and desire to engage professionally. Excellent written and oral communication skills.

Preferred:
Knowledge of the digital research practices of at least one scholarly discipline, preferably in the humanities. Experience with formal assessment and evaluation methods. Supervisory experience. Experience with development and management of grant projects and budgets.