8/5/2013

"NYU Division of Libraries is developing a unit to provide digital scholarship and publishing services for our faculty and graduate students. The Digital Scholarship Specialist will join that unit to provide client service, technical expertise, training, and support for tools and practices that are used by faculty and researchers engaged with digital scholarship and publishing, with a particular focus on the digital humanities. The Digital Scholarship and Publishing Services team works collaboratively with staff throughout NYU Libraries and NYU Information Technology Services, including the Digital Studio, Data Services, Digital Library Technology Services, Libraries subject specialists, and NYU Abu Dhabi Library. This position reports to the Librarian for Digital Scholarship Initiatives and will also work under the guidance of the Program Officer for Digital Scholarly Publishing."



Qualifications: Required Education & Experience: Bachelor’s degree and 3 years relevant experience in an academic environment supporting digital scholarship, technologies & methods, information technology and training, digital publishing, repository services, or related fields as well as experience using repository tools (DSpace, Fedora, etc), publishing platforms (WordPress, Omeka, etc) and html/css. Must include: excellent interpersonal and communication skills; client service and orientation skills; project management skills; knowledge of digital scholarly technologies and methods; experience supporting information technology and training; experience with or knowledge of the digital humanities; willingness to undertake responsibility. Priority will be given to candidates with experience in the following areas: ● repository tools (e.g., DSpace, Fedora) ● teaching in an academic setting ● common publishing platforms such as WordPress, Omeka, etc. ● project management ● html/css ● methods of the digital humanities Preferred Education and Experience: ● Master’s degree strongly preferred. ● knowledge of Open Journal Systems ● metadata use in libraries or digital humanities contexts ● tools and techniques such as OCR, Photoshop, media digitization (imaging, audio, video) ● some knowledge of programming and scripting languages (e.g., mysql, php, xml, xslt, javascript, ruby, python) ● experience with or knowledge of social media and tools for outreach



"Our mission is to provide engaging, responsive, and human-centered services connecting the global NYU community to the resources they need for digital scholarship and publishing. In support of that mission, the Digital Scholarship Specialist will work with the team to: * Provide customer service for digital publishing, possibly including WordPress, Omeka, ARTstor/Shared * Shelf, Open Journal Systems, Scalar, etc. * Act as primary service contact for NYU's DSpace institutional repository, the Faculty Digital Archive. * Advise on metadata creation related to publishing and repository services. * Help scholars use common digital humanities tools and methods, such as text scanning, OCR, and text analysis; data visualization; audio and video production; etc. * Advise clients on website development, including content production, website architecture, hosting platforms, content migration, etc. * Provide training in digital scholarship tools and methods. * Provide client service in the Digital Studio. * Manage projects to deploy new tools and services. * Evaluate user needs and service gaps; test new tools, platforms, and software with an eye to potential deployment at NYU; stay current on tools, trends, and methods to enhance services. * Participate in outreach and promotional events, maintain our web presence for digital scholarship services, using social media, etc."
