3/14/2014

"The Digital Humanities Librarian will establish and grow a dynamic, multifaceted program that addresses the growing demand for digital arts and humanities support on campus. Working with arts and humanities scholars, faculty and students, the Digital Humanities Librarian will foster successful adoption and application of digital arts and humanities approaches to research, teaching, and learning. The librarian will engage deeply with the Digital Arts and Humanities Working Group, the Digital Media Collective, ACCAD (Advanced Computer Center for the Arts and Design), and other campus entities to identify innovative and evolving digital tools and resources that advance scholarly investigation, while building upon the traditional cornerstones of research methodologies in the arts and humanities disciplines. The librarian will be the liaison to the University's Humanities Institute and will collaborate with faculty participating in Institute projects and initiatives funded by the College of Arts and Sciences. The Digital Humanities Librarian will be a change agent, partner, and resource person for subject librarians and special collections curators involved in facilitating faculty and student digital projects and will be expected to conduct regular scans of the campus environment to identify emerging areas of interest."

"* An ALA-accredited MLS or MLIS degree or PhD in relevant subject area or an equivalent combination of education and experience. * Experience with digital arts and humanities research tools and approaches (e.g., text mining, data visualization, image analysis, and augmented reality). * Knowledge of data issues in the research/knowledge creation lifecycle. * Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively with faculty, subject librarians, special collections and others in order to advance digital arts and humanities research."

* Experience in developing a multifaceted program for a multidisciplinary constituency. * Familiarity with research methodologies across a variety of arts and humanities disciplines. * Familiarity with data visualization tools and techniques applied to humanities research. * Experience with grant writing. * Experience representing a library to external stakeholders and engaging in consortial projects or programs. * Demonstrated ability to lead change.



"* Conduct environmental scans of humanities departments in conjunction with subject librarians and special collections curators in order to identify current and emerging scholarly projects for which digital tools and methodologies are appropriate. * Coordinate information about digital arts and humanities scholarship on campus in order to connect scholars across the disciplines and facilitate interdisciplinarity. * Identify and evaluate current and emerging digital tools and methodologies supporting humanities scholars in collaboration with Digital Initiatives. * Provide expert consulting service to humanities scholars and students on techniques and tools that serve to advance their teaching, learning and research. * Serve as a strategist and resource person for the Libraries on trends in the digital arts and humanities. * Collaborate with staff managing the Libraries' digital repository, publishing and reformatting programs, to advance the Libraries' contributions to faculty and student research projects in the arts and humanities; work with the Head of Digital Initiatives to create strategies for collaboration, program planning, and support for interdisciplinary digital projects. * Work closely with the Head of the Fine Arts Library, the Data Management Services Librarian, the Geospatial Information Librarian, and the Head of Digital Initiatives, and others in order to develop strategies focused on scholars' digital production and curation needs. * Create an education program for Libraries' staff focused on digital arts and humanities topics. * Act as subject librarian for a humanities discipline."
