5/13/2014

"Boston College Libraries seeks TWO creative, knowledgeable, and intellectually curious Digital Scholarship Librarians (Arts & Humanities, and Sciences & Social Sciences) to advance digital scholarship initiatives at Boston College by providing  consultation, technical support, and project management for faculty, librarians, staff, and students engaged in technology-rich scholarly projects, Under the direction of the Associate University Librarian for Digital Initiatives & Public Programs, and in conjunction with subject and instruction liaisons, systems and digital library staff, scholarly communications and repository librarians, and others, s/he works directly with clients (faculty, students, staff) in identifying and deploying appropriate tools and technologies to meet research or publication needs. In addition to direct support at the project level, s/he will deliver training, group instruction, and workshops on Digital Scholarship topics with an emphasis on data visualization, text mining and encoding, mapping, and data analysis, and will maintain project documentation for a growing corpus of digital scholarly production. This role requires exceptional technology skills, creativity, and communication skills, and an understanding of discipline-specific and interdisciplinary research methodology. The ability to listen, articulate problems, and find effective technology solutions across a variety of disciplines, while working with a range of clients from novice scholars to senior faculty, is essential. "

"MLS from an ALA accredited program with a strong technology component. Minimum 2 years related work in developing and supporting digital content in an academic environment required. Preferred: additional graduate degree in a) the arts or humanities, b) sciences or social sciences. Practical knowledge of and experience with a range of tools for the analysis and display of information, such as online exhibit tools, social media, scanning / OCR, data visualization, geospatial analysis, encoding and text mining, programming and scripting languages, format conversion and editing protocols and tools, graphic design, relational databases, metadata schema, and open web standards. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively and persuasively across scholarly and technology domains; experience applying research methodologies to solve scholarly problems; exceptional project management skills. The successful candidates will each have a portfolio of technology-rich projects and will demonstrate enthusiasm for exploring new technologies and seeking opportunities to share their knowledge with others. S/he will bring an ability and mindset to develop new skills and integrate them as technologies evolve."
