9/11/2014

"The Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences at Carnegie Mellon University, with pending grant funding from the A.W. Mellon Foundation in the Digital Humanities, is seeking applicants for a Research Staff position in the digital humanities. In particular, we are looking for applicants with skills and experience in one or more of the following areas: natural language processing, data mining of large textual corpora, machine learning approaches to analyzing large textual collections, social network analysis, geographical information systems, statistical analysis, especially in high dimensional spaces, and user interface design, especially visual analytics. Please note that this position is grant funded for 4 years with the possibility of further extension. The position will report to the Dean of the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences."

"* Education: M.A. or Ph.D. in a humanities field with demonstrated knowledge of computer science and statistics; or M.S. or Ph.D. in Computer Science, Information-Library Science, Statistics, or related fields with demonstrated knowledge of humanities. * Skills: Natural language processing, data mining of large textual corpora, machine learning approaches to analyzing large textual collections, social network analysis, geographical information systems, statistical analysis, especially in high dimensional spaces, and user interface design, especially visual analytics. * Physical Mobility: Normally sedentary with some mobility(i.e. able to travel to other campus locations; may require some bending and lifting) * Environmental Conditions: Normal office environment although some work may be performed in other settings. Generally work involves extended use of computer monitor. * Mental: Ability to meet inflexible deadlines, remain calm during difficult situations, work under pressure and work with frequent interruptions. * Other: Weekend and evening work may be required"





"The Digital Humanities Specialist position will lay a foundation for supporting research by humanities Ph.D. students and faculty in digital humanities. The primary function will be: * Consult with Ph.D. and faculty in the humanities in applying automated text processing, statistical data analysis, and machine learning techniques to research questions in the humanities; * Educate Ph.D. students and faculty in acquiring analysis skills through the development and delivery of targeted workshops and/or courses. Activities will also include the evaluation and recommendation of existing tools and techniques, with the possibility of some development/extension and implementation of algorithms and models. Additional job functions include assisting Ph.D. students and faculty in trouble-shooting problems with tools and publishing papers."
