9/16/2014

"Lead digital scholarship initiatives for the Smith College Libraries' Teaching, Learning and Research (TLR) department, working closely with colleagues engaged in the development of digital scholarship at Smith.  Promote the adoption of new models of scholarship at Smith by developing methodologies and tools of the digital humanities and social sciences for research, teaching and learning.  Provide instruction and consultation services for digital projects, and serve on project teams.  Facilitate the use of library content for digital scholarship creation by faculty and students. Serve as a resource for other TLR librarians who are engaged in digital scholarship; provides training and consultation.  Keep abreast of new developments in digital scholarship and scholarly communication in the humanities and social sciences, and promote awareness among colleagues.  As a member of the Teaching, Learning and Research department, conduct general reference, outreach, library instruction/information literacy, collection development and liaison activities."

"Education/Experience: Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program. Advanced degree or background in a discipline of the humanities or social sciences preferred. At least 2 years of experience working with faculty or students on digital scholarship projects; teaching experience, especially on the undergraduate level; and experience with the provision of library reference and research assistance to patrons. Skills: Ability to select, implement and evaluate emerging tools of digital scholarship. Demonstrated familiarity with current issues of scholarly communication and the ability to convey these complex issues to a diverse audience. Demonstrated project management skills. A strong commitment to public service; knowledge of current issues and methods of library instruction/information literacy; excellent oral and written communication skills; demonstrated ability to work flexibly, independently and collaboratively with colleagues and library users in a rapidly changing service-oriented environment."





"Digital Scholarship and Scholarly Communication: Research digital scholarship technologies and methodologies and promote them to faculty and students; provide expert consultation and instruction on digital humanities/social sciences techniques and tools; participate on project teams as an active partner in the development of digital projects. Partner with the libraries' Digital Strategies & Services staff to provide consultation for faculty and students on the management and preservation of digital content through Smith's repositories. Work with subject liaisons to identify and vet library content to be incorporated into projects; help subject liaisons participate in digital scholarship by providing group training and one-on-one consultations for colleagues. Maintain a working knowledge of copyright issues related to digital scholarship, and be able to exercise knowledge of copyright appropriately. Collaborate and consult with other professionals across the Libraries, the College and the Five Colleges. Information Literacy: Collaborate closely with academic departments and individual faculty to teach students about the creation and dissemination of and access to information and knowledge resources. Applying learning and pedagogical theory, initiate, design, conduct, and assess course-related library instruction, orientations, workshops and other instructional activities; develop instructional materials. Collection Development and Subject Liaison: Collaborate with faculty to build collections in print, electronic and other formats that reflect current and developing curricular and research needs in assigned subject areas. Develop and maintain knowledge of existing and developing modes of scholarly communication and respond to the changing information needs of students and faculty. Evaluate and select materials; monitor expenditures. Reference/Outreach: Provide reference and research support to faculty and students. Provide expert guidance to print and electronic resources across multiple interfaces of licensed online databases and relevant internet resources. Develop subject content for Libraries' web site, including subject and course resource pages, bibliographies, and other web based tools and digital information services. Participate in library wide committees and professional activities. Engage in continuous professional self-development, and keep current with emerging library practices, methodologies, and technologies. Perform related duties as required."
