10/21/2014

"The University of California, Irvine Libraries seeks a collaborative, creative, proactive, and user- oriented professional for the position E-Research and Digital Scholarship Services (ERDS) Librarian to develop the Libraries' role in the research and publication lifecycle of digital resources. Reporting to the Head of the Collection Development Department, the incumbent will serve as Head of the E-Research and Digital Scholarship Services Unit and will be a member of the Collection Development Department."

#NAME?

"- Experience managing a unit and supervising staff. - Knowledge of current issues and trends in intellectual property, copyright, and fair use. - Familiarity with the mobile and web-based technologies used in social media and ability to learn new technolo"



"Services include but are not limited to: - Consultation for grant requirements related to data management, data sharing, and publication; - Consultation regarding UC's open access policy; - Assistance in data curation; - Assistance with linked data; - Educating faculty, researchers, and librarians about impact metrics - Providing digital preservation and migration services; - Providing and/or training researchers on metadata enhancement; The unit will be involved in project management, workflow development, and provision of ongoing digital services for the scholarly community of UC Irvine and the UCI Libraries. The ERDS Librarian will manage all aspects of the Unit, from strategic planning to daily operations, effectively coordinating staff and technology resources, and working with subject specialists, IT professionals, and public relations staff. The ERDS Librarian will supervise a metadata librarian and a programmer analyst, and there is a likelihood that the unit will expand. Serving as an advisor to library management, the ERDS Librarian will interact extensively with other campus units and library departments on issues related to digital research, outreach, and publishing. The ERDS Librarian will work with faculty, researchers, librarians, and archivists to promote and support digital publishing and open access, and will encourage experimentation and risk-taking in digital scholarship projects as part of professional growth and innovative services. The ERDS Librarian will act as a resource within the Libraries for digital services and projects, and will educate librarians and staff about available digital and data services. The ERDS Librarian will build awareness of and support for the management and preservation of digital publications and related materials including research data. The ERDS Librarian will monitor data-related developments on campus and within the UC system, including the California Digital Library, and will explore ways that the Libraries can best leverage digital collections, local resources such as the UCI repository, UCIspace, and staff expertise to support faculty, researchers, and students in their own research and scholarly activities. The ERDS Librarian will explore and develop new services in the areas of e-research and digital scholarship. In addition, the ERDS Librarian will look for grant opportunities to develop services and expertise in the areas of digital services, data, and e-research."
