2/14/2011



"Master in Library Science and/ or an Advanced degree in a Humanities discipline/PhD preferred. 2-3 year's related professional experience required Deep understanding of the research process and knowledge of the ways that new technologies are affecting the production of scholarship in the humanities Demonstrated facility with current technologies commonly used in digital humanities projects (such as database design and programming, web services, XML technologies, corpus linguistics etc.) and software (Zotero, Omeka, etc.) Knowledge of and ability to teach scholarly communications issues (for example copyright, author's rights, open access, repositories) Broad knowledge of available print and online resources in one or more humanities disciplines Demonstrated ability in instruction and making presentations. Demonstrated ability in one or more foreign languages (Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, Italian, or Classical languages) Prefer knowledge of and experience with digital curation"





"This is not really a programmer position, but should have quite a bit of overlap with the c4l world. Please pass it along to anyone who might be interested. As the Library's primary liaison to academic departments in the humanities, the Digital Humanities Librarian plays a central role in the integration of digital resources and methodologies with traditional resources and approaches into the research, teaching, and learning missions at Brown University. Together with other Scholarly Resources Librarians, the Center for Digital Scholarship and relevant library and campus partners, s/he will work to increase the understanding and application of digital scholarship among the institution's faculty and students. S/he is expected to introduce and keep abreast of digital methodologies and to use such tools and skills in the solution of humanities research problems. The successful candidate will contribute to the work of the Brown Digital Repository by helping to articulate the relationship between new technologies and humanities scholarship to the community of humanists; by advising teaching faculty on the creation of digital objects and providing technical support for use of analytical tools; and in serving as an agent between content providers and the Library's repository. S/he will maintain a strong level of competence in scholarly communications issues such as new forms of publication, copyright, open access, repositories, data curation, and licensing of online resources. S/he will also use his/her knowledge of available print and electronic resources to build appropriate collections in general collections and related Special Collections and to advocate for the fields to which he/she is assigned."
