11/10/2014



"* Bachelor's degree in a humanities discipline or information science field, and two years of experience working in a related field * demonstrated experience in instructional design and in providing workshops or other instruction * effective oral and written communication skills in a variety of modes * knowledge of or experience with one of more of the technologies used to support text mining, topic modeling, or, such as R and related analysis tools * the ability to work independently as well as collaboratively in a team environment * excellent organizational skills and a demonstrable ability to manage multiple priorities * familiarity with content management systems and website management * the ability to remain conversant with newly evolving technologies."

"* Master's degree in a humanities field, information science, or related discipline * experience with technologies for distance and remote learning * experience in planning and implementing programs or services * experience working with metadata encoded in one or more of the following schemas: MARC, MODS, METS, TEI * familiarity with linked open data and semantic web technologies * knowledge of or experience with digital preservation strategies * experience in writing grant proposals."



"The University of Illinois Library conducts a variety of activities in support of digital humanities scholarship, including creation, delivery, curation and preservation of a wide variety of types of digital assets and tools. In particular, its partnership in the HathiTrust Research Center (HTRC) with Indiana University - Bloomington and the University of Illinois's Graduate School of Library and Information Science requires a robust support infrastructure for facilitating researchers' access and use of textual corpora from the HathiTrust Digital Library. The University of Illinois Library aims to become an exemplar of research support for textual analysis and data visualization in the HathiTrust community. Reporting to the English and Digital Humanities Librarian, the Visiting HTRC Digital Humanities Specialist will assist with the development of training and outreach initiatives in support of libraries who wish to start their own HTRC research services as well as researchers working with the Hathi Trust Research Center. Responsibilities will include planning, implementation and continuous design and development of training materials and educational workshops (both face-to-face and remote) and outreach activities in support of the usage of HTRC tools and datasets. The successful candidate will focus on supporting the development of HTRC research services at HathiTrust member institutions, and will collaborate with public services and data services librarians at HathiTrust member institutions on developing support services for digital humanities research with HTRC corpus. The successful candidate will have an excellent understanding of instructional design, and will be able to develop effective and engaging resources for librarians to use with researchers. The specialist will work closely with the English and Digital Humanities Librarian at the University of Illinois Library to develop research data services for the humanities, with particular emphasis on the HTRC corpus and tools. The specialist will spend up to 20 percent of their time on the support of research work with the HTRC. Examples of currently supported digital humanities projects involving the HTRC corpus include a text mining project of eighteenth-century novels for changes in dialect; a text mining project to search HT volumes for n-grams related to technology ; a comparative literature textual analysis project; and topic modeling of twentieth-century texts for depictions of African-American women. In addition, the successful candidate will contribute to the work of the Scholarly Commons in helping to articulate the relationship between new technologies and humanities scholarship to the community of humanists; and in advising teaching faculty on the usage of digitized textual corpora and providing technical support for use of analytical tools. The scope and responsibilities will evolve in accordance with priorities established by the Library and HathiTrust community. As an Academic Professional employee, the Digital Humanities Research Specialist is encouraged to use ""investigation time"" to pursue areas of his or her interest, not directly in support of an immediate program need, in accordance with the University Library's policy on Investigation Time for Academic Professional Employees. Some investigations that originate in this manner may evolve into regular work assignments or production activities."
