11/19/2014

"The Digital Scholarship Librarian (DSL) will provide vision and energy in promoting the discovery, use and interoperability of digital content and digital resources in support of new knowledge creation at the college. The DSL will provide overall management for a multidisciplinary range of digital content, which includes standard file formats (i.e. publication, image, video, and audio files), open access and OER content, new asset classes (i.e. APIs and GIS data), as well as open source and subscription-based digital scholarship tools and services. The DSL will partner with fellow librarians and the Instructional Designer to ensure effective discovery, interoperability, and persistence of digital content. Together they will guide development of digital scholarship initiatives and work internally within the college as well as externally with vendors to resolve complex issues relating to scholarly content systems. The successful candidate will bring a sense of inquisitiveness and strong problem-solving skills to the position, along with an aptitude for strategic thinking and scalable and sustainable planning, as well as a passion for and commitment to advancing digital scholarship in a flexible, media-rich, studio-based, hands-on art and design environment. REPORTS TO: Director of Libraries"

"MLS, or equivalent, from an ALA-accredited institution. Library work experience. Portfolio of digital scholarship projects. Understanding of issues involved in developing, licensing, maintaining and providing access to a multidisciplinary range of digital content. Experience with digital asset management and/or digital publishing systems and services. Knowledge of copyright best practices related to digital scholarship. Familiarity with cataloguing formats and/or metadata schemas. Working knowledge of XML. Experience in website development and maintenance; ability to use web editing software; demonstrated knowledge of HTML and CSS. Success in matching technical solutions to project needs. Ability to work effectively both collaboratively and independently in a diverse, art and design service oriented environment. Must have excellent written and oral communication skills for working effectively with students and faculty with a range of learning styles and digital proficiencies. Must have a high degree of creativity for developing innovative solutions, an affinity for public service, and good time management skills. Skilled in soliciting new ideas and feedback from user groups. Ability to quickly learn new tools and technologies. Ability to assess and learn from mistakes."

"Work experience in an academic library, preferably involving reference experience. Mobile web development. Experience with an LMS, such as Moodle or OpenClass. Project management experience, preferably with grant management. Demonstrated ability to effectively supervise, train and motivate staff. Knowledge of the digital scholarship practices of at least one or more of the program areas currently in the CCA curriculum."



"60% Digital Scholarship Management Leads and manages the development, implementation, and support of digital scholarship initiatives at the college, working across academic and administrative departments. Partners closely with the Systems Librarian to: streamline workflows and processes for digital scholarship projects. increase the capability and capacity for digitizing, preserving, and distributing content, in accordance with evolving best practices. supervise the integration of metadata across a variety of library systems, following standards and best practices for the description of digital objects. ensure that assessment plans are developed as part of any new digital scholarship initiative. provide front-line support for use of digital scholarship content by the community. Troubleshoots, documents and resolves systems' flaws. Partners with the Instructional Designer to cultivate, implement, manage, and assess digital scholarship initiatives in the classroom. Collates internal digital scholarship assets, including content in ARTstor/Shared Shelf, CCA's digital archive VAULT, and other college asset management systems, for maximum discoverability and usability. 10% Rights Management Advises and provides guidance on issues related to intellectual property, open access publishing, and fair use. 10% Professional Development & Outreach Identifies relevant best practices and standards in digital scholarship technologies, keeps currents with developments and applications in the field, and experiments with new technologies. Remains current with fair use and copyright interpretations and implementations in higher education. Strengthens library staff digital literacy skills by providing support and training in library technologies, encouraging experimentation with new technologies and fostering a culture of innovation and exploration. Actively works to engage and advertise the libraries' digital scholarship initiatives across both campuses and develops outreach programming. Creates digital publishing and copyright information resources and workshops for the college. 20% General Librarian Duties Provides reference and research support for both libraries, schedules in-person reference desk hours in both libraries roughly equally, enhances use of other modalities for reference services. Works with Instructional Librarian to supplement, support and teach information literacy skills to students, faculty and staff. Manages library technician staff member(s). Hires, trains and supervises work study students and interns as needed for projects. Develops and implements tools and programming to encourage library use. Participates in planning and policy development. Other duties as assigned."
