1/20/2015

"English Literature & Digital Humanities Librarian The Hesburgh Libraries at the University of Notre Dame seek a knowledgeable and dynamic individual in the field of English Literature. We are looking for talented, flexible, enthusiastic applicants who have a passion for the teaching and research missions of the university and understand the Libraries' role in advancing those missions. The successful candidate will be highly knowledgeable, innovative, result-oriented and strategically focused. S/he will possess excellent communications, interpersonal, and team skills. Working both independently and collegially, s/he will help lead the Libraries in creating superb specialized services for today's students and faculty and those of tomorrow. "

"An advanced degree in English Literature or related field or a graduate degree in library science from an ALA-accredited school with a strong academic background in English Literature is required. Prior successful application of text-mining, data-visualization or other digital techniques related to the study of English Literature is required. Experience in collection development as well as teaching and research are highly desirable. Strong oral and written communication skills, organizational skills, proficiency with electronic resources, and proven ability to work well with colleagues are required. "





"Serves as the primary liaison to faculty, students and researchers in the Department of English. S/he works closely with these scholars and others concerned with the study of English Literature to insure the Libraries have the resources and services needed for successful research and learning. In consultation with the relevant teaching faculty, this position is responsible for the development, maintenance, and administration of English literature resources in all formats, including, print, microfilm and electronic, as well as expanding user access to scholarly resources beyond our collections. Also provides customized, course-integrated instruction and in-depth subject-related research consultation as appropriate. The successful candidate will also apply prior experience in text-mining, data-visualization or other digital applications relevant to the study of topics in English literature, and is expected to advise other staff and librarians to meet such demands in other Humanities disciplines. Position reports .5 FTE to the Head, Digital Production and Outreach within the Center for Digital Scholarship and .5 FTE to the Director, Arts & Humanities Research Services. "
