1/27/2015

"Smith College Libraries seeks an innovative librarian with excellent teaching skills and a passion for exploring new forms of scholarship to join its department of Teaching, Learning & Research in the new position of Digital Scholarship Librarian."

"MLIS or equivalent degree from an ALA-accredited program, or Master's degree in another discipline with significant work experience in an academic library. At least 2 years of experience relevant to the position, including: work with the emerging tools of digital scholarship; teaching, especially on the undergraduate level; and the provision of library reference and research assistance to patrons. Advanced degree or background in a discipline of the humanities or social sciences preferred. Skills: Ability to select, implement and evaluate digital scholarship tools and the ability to teach others to use these tools. Demonstrated familiarity with current issues of scholarly communication and the ability to convey these complex issues to a diverse audience. Demonstrated project management skills. Strong teaching skills; a commitment to public service; knowledge of current issues and methods of library instruction/information literacy; excellent oral and written communication skills; demonstrated ability to work flexibly, independently and collaboratively with colleagues and library users in a rapidly changing service-oriented environment."





" The Digital Scholarship Librarian will incorporate support for digital scholarship into the library's program of services that support teaching, learning and research at the College. S/he will promote the adoption of new models of scholarship by introducing and teaching the methodologies and tools of the digital humanities and social sciences, working closely with colleagues, students, faculty and staff engaged in digital scholarship at Smith and across the Five College consortium (https://www.fivecolleges.edu/). S/he will provide instruction and consultation services for digital scholarship projects; serve on project teams; facilitate the use of library content for digital scholarship creation by faculty and students; serve as a resource for other librarians who are engaged in digital scholarship; and keep abreast of innovations in scholarly communication in the humanities and social sciences, promoting awareness among colleagues. As a member of the newly formed Teaching, Learning & Research department, the Digital Scholarship Librarian will participate in a nationally regarded information literacy program (http://www.smith.edu/libraries/services/faculty/infolit/) while helping the department re-envision its approach to information literacy in response to changes in teaching and learning, and in anticipation of a new library building program that will transform services. As a member of the department, the librarian will also conduct reference, outreach, library instruction/information literacy, collection development and liaison activities"
