2/2/2015



"* ALA-accredited Master's Degree in Library or Information Science OR an advanced degree in an appropriate subject discipline with relevant special collections or archival training. * Excellent written and oral communication skills. * Knowledge of national digital library standards for digitization and metadata creation across all standard formats (images, moving images, audio, video, text) and metadata domains (descriptive, technical, administrative). * Knowledge of and demonstrated experience working with library XML standards such as MODS, EAD, TEI. * Experience managing digital library or digital humanities projects in an academic setting. * Ability to effectively lead teams with participants with a range of technical abilities. * Ability to initiate and maintain cooperative working relationships with co-workers, supervisors, and managers. Ability to work harmoniously and as a team player, thrive in a team-based environment, and skill in fostering teamwork among others. * Ability to follow directions from supervisors (and to provide clear directions to staff and student employees). * Experience with one or more digital library management systems (e.g. ContentDM, Islandora, Hydra). * Ability to get to work reliably and on time and to be present in the workplace during normal working hours."

* Experience developing user interfaces for digital library content or digital humanities projects. * Experience with post-completion project review and evaluation.



"The UCLA Library seeks an innovative and collaborative information professional to serve as Digital Scholarship Librarian within the Digital Library Program. This is a forward-looking, transformative role for an individual with a passion for range of cutting-edge activities within digital scholarship, including building new digital collections, developing services in support of research, teaching and learning, and managing digital projects and project teams, including collaborations with faculty and with partners nationally and internationally, and with Library staff responsible for metadata creation, data curation, collection development, and Web services development. The Librarian also leads the Program's outreach and social media presence, and participates with colleagues in ongoing collaboration with campus partners such as the Center for Digital Humanities, Institute for Digital Research and Education, Social Sciences Computing, and the Department of Information Studies."
