9/12/2015

"Digital Scholarship LibrarianUtah State University Libraries seek an innovative, collaborative, and proactive librarian to assume management of the Libraries' digital scholarship efforts, including the university's thriving institutional repository (IR), DigitalCommons@USU, and other scholarly communication activities. The successful candidate will have a keen interest in the extensive scholarly communication landscape including: digital publishing and preservation, open access, open education, open data, and related intellectual property issues. Reporting to the Head of Digital Initiatives, the position is a 12-month, tenure track faculty appointment with rank as Assistant Librarian. This position works both independently and in a collaborative environment to educate the USU community about the use and creation of digital resources and opportunities with particular emphasis on the IR and USU's Digital Library. This will include promoting DigitalCommons@USU as a repository and both the IR and Digital Library as integrated tools in the research and teaching activities across the USU campuses. This position also contributes to efforts to raise awareness of related issues such as open access, open educational resources, data management, and copyright.Salary is $40,000, plus excellent benefits. Utah State University offers a competitive benefits package, to include medical and dental with a 14.2% retirement contribution by the University, and 22 days/year vacation.  The Library provides generous support for professional development and travel.Review of applications will begin on October 4, 2015 and the position will remain open until filled. Apply online at: https://usu.hiretouch.com/job-details?jobid=728"

"Required Qualifications:*	ALA-accredited Masters degree (awarded or near complete)*	Highly effective communication and interpersonal skills, including listening, writing and speaking*	Ability to work effectively with various university stakeholders*	Knowledge of current trends and issues in scholarly communication, digital publishing and preservation, and data management*	Demonstrated problem solving skills*	Ability to set and follow through on both individual and team priorities*	Interest in learning new technologies and working in a dynamic environment*	Excellent analytical, organizational, and time management skills*	Ability to meet the university's requirements for promotion and tenurePreferred Qualifications:*	Project management experience *	Experience in an academic library setting*	Familiarity with copyright law, specifically fair use and library exemptions*	Familiarity with repository platforms"



"Responsibilities:*	Develop and implement scholarly communication programs and initiatives.*	Build and maintain collaborative partnerships with research and administrative units on campus.*	Promote and support USU's Open Access Policy and data management efforts across campus.*	Manage the development of and coordinate outreach in support of DigitalCommons@USU.*	Promote the use of library resources as digital scholarship and support library efforts to integrate these resources into the curriculum.*	Work collaboratively across the Library to identify and promote digital tools to enhance research and teaching.*	Serve as a subject librarian to one or more academic disciplines."
