2/19/2015

"The Research Computing Center (RCC) is seeking a highly motivated Digital Humanities Computing Research Consultant to work closely with faculty and researchers. The person in this position will serve as a point person to work closely with faculty and researchers in the Humanities Division (HD). The Consultant will serve as a technical domain expert in supporting and advising faculty and postdoctoral fellows on research that involves computational analysis (text mining, network analysis, GIS), information visualization, and/or data intensive research. The successful candidate will join a team of consultants who are playing a key role in the creation of subject matter experts support group at the University of Chicago."

"* Proficiency in one or more scripting languages (such as Python, Perl, Bash, etc.) * Must be able to understand and translate researchers' project goals into computational requirements. * Must be able to function as part of an interactive team while demonstrating self-initiative to achieve project's goals and research computing center's mission. * Must have strong analytical skills and problem solving ability. * Minimum of three years experience in a UNIX-based programming environment. * Excellent oral and written English communication and inter-personal skills. * Ability to work well with faculty and researchers"

* Programming and development experience. * Proficiency in one or more programming languages. * Experience writing or contributing to grant proposals.



"* Work closely with humanities faculty to identify, develop, and implement useful computational methods and resources that support or advance their research. * Assist in the implementation, development, and improvement of software and methods that can be utilized in analyzing and interpreting humanities data. This will include software and methods related to text mining, visualization, mapping, and other approaches currently being used in the field of digital humanities. * Assist with the compiling, debugging, optimizing, profiling and porting of codes on RCC compute and storage resources. * Design tutorials, hands-on workshops, and documentation for researchers and students in the Humanities Division with the help and coordination of other RCC staff. * Assist with HD faculty grant proposals by incorporating aspects related to computation, data analysis, and data management. * Organize seminars and meet-ups to expand and help bring together the emerging community of computational researchers in the Humanities. * Keep abreast of new developments in digital humanities and be pro-active in introducing them to the faculty. * Dedicate a portion of time on digital research projects or activities for professional development, as approved."
