5/28/2015

The University of Miami Libraries seeks nominations and applications for a collaborative and innovative Digital Humanities Librarian.

"* An ALA-accredited MLS or MLIS degree or PhD in relevant subject area or an equivalent combination of education and experience. * Working experience with at least one set of digital humanities research tools and approaches (e.g., text mining, data visualization, image analysis, GIS). * High comfort level with experimentation with digital tools. * Demonstrated ability to collaborate and communicate with a broad range of stakeholders. * Familiarity with research methodologies across a variety of humanities disciplines. * Demonstrated effective oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills. * Demonstrated commitment to user-centered service and the ability to work flexibly and creatively in a changing and fast-paced environment with a culturally diverse population. * Evidence of capacity for professional development, involvement, and contribution."

"* Experience in developing and leading new services and programs for multidisciplinary set of stakeholders. * Experience with grant writing and management. * Knowledge of data issues in the research/knowledge creation lifecycle particularly for the humanities. * Demonstrated project management, organizational, analytical, and problem solving skills. * Experience as a liaison to a humanities discipline"



"Reporting to the Associate Dean for Digital Strategies and working within a growing digital strategies team, the Digital Humanities Librarian will develop a set of services to support the evolving digital humanities research and pedagogy on the University of Miami campus. The Digital Humanities Librarian will work with colleagues in the UM Libraries, the Center for the Humanities, the Center for Computational Sciences (CCS), and the nascent digital humanities research program, among others, to identify and foster adoption of digital tools and resources that serve to advance scholarly work and teaching in the humanities and arts. The successful candidate will collaborate with faculty and students on digital humanities research and projects, and will serve as a resource for subject librarians and special collections curators involved with such projects. The successful candidate will serve as a liaison for the Center for the Humanities, and will have a firm grounding in research methodologies in humanities disciplines. Essential Duties and Responsibilities include the following. Performance: * Identify and evaluate current and emerging digital tools and methodologies supporting humanities scholars; * Consult with humanities faculty and students on digital tools and methodologies that support their research and teaching; * Conduct regular environmental scans of the campus in collaboration with subject liaisons and others to identify current and emerging digital scholarly projects and to understand and develop strategies to support faculty needs; * Provide instruction, as needed, on digital tools and methodologies to support digital humanities research and teaching; * Work with the AD for Digital Strategies, campus partners, and others in the Libraries to develop and implement short and long term strategies for program and service development in the digital humanities; * Serve as a strategist and resource person for the Libraries on trends in the digital humanities and arts; * Serve as a liaison to the Center for the Humanities; and * Dependent on background and expertise, act as subject librarian for a humanities discipline. Service: * Network, collaborate, and actively participate in local, regional, national, and/or international organizations regarding digital humanities issues; * Represent and promote the University of Miami Libraries in local, state-wide, regional, national, or international organizations, as appropriate; and * Serve on/participate in Libraries and University organizations, committees, task forces, and teams as appropriate."
