6/5/2015

"K-State Libraries invite applications and nominations for two Digital Scholarship Librarians. To support the university's goal of becoming a top-50 public research university by 2025, these positions will work collaboratively to grow the center's publishing, copyright, and data services; support the institutional repository, K-State Research Exchange (K-REx), and online publishing imprint, New Prairie Press (NPP); engage campus content providers; and provide education and guidance on digital scholarship. These are forward-thinking, innovative roles for individuals with a desire to excel in a range of cutting-edge digital scholarship initiatives, including building and managing born-digital or digitized content; advocating for open access (OA); and identifying opportunities to support the research and publication lifecycle. We are seeking individuals with knowledge of contemporary digital library standards for all formats. These are full-time tenure track positions, and the candidates must have a commitment to scholarly/creative activities and professional service necessary for pursuing tenure at K-State Libraries. These positions report to the Director of the Center for the Advancement of Digital Scholarship."

"* Master of Library Science degree from an American Library Association (ALA) accredited institution at the time of appointment, OR an advanced terminal degree in an appropriate discipline with relevant digital scholarship experience. * Excellent interpersonal, presentation, and communication skills, particularly the ability to explain complex concepts to a wide variety of users in individual and group settings. * Experience with or working knowledge of Excel, XML, and HTML. * Familiarity with current publishing, data, and authors' rights and copyright issues. * Coursework or experience with digital scholarship."

"* Experience with an IR, LMS, or CMS (e.g., D-Space, Digital Commons, ePrints). * Familiarity with the curation of various formats (e.g., text, data sets, media, images). * Experience or working knowledge of protocols and standards (e.g., DC, MODS). * Experience managing or developing user interfaces. * Experience with post-completion project review and assessments. * Experience working in an academic library."



"* Work independently and collaboratively with colleagues to meet current digital scholarship demands and discover future campus needs related to the creation and dissemination of digital scholarship, engaging library staff experts in projects as appropriate. * Initiate, build and nurture excellent relationships with a diverse community within the university, as well as external partners, in support of digital scholarship services. * Develop or propose new workflows and tools to support effective, innovative and sustainable digital scholarship. Upon implementation review and evaluate impact of changes. * Stay abreast of emerging, innovative trends and technologies, standards, publishing models, digital scholarship developments and related legislative initiatives and evaluate their adaptation to improve the local environment. * Through face-to-face and virtual environments, provide outreach, education, workshops, promotion, and consultations to the campus community about copyright/fair use, authors' rights, K-REx, NPP, publishing, OA, and other digital scholarship topics."
