6/11/2015

"The Emory Libraries seek an energetic, user-oriented, and collaborative professional to serve as a Humanities Librarian on the Humanities Team with a subject area focus of English Literature. Emory's well-ranked and dynamic English department includes 40 faculty, over 50 graduate students, and more than 150 undergraduate majors. The successful candidate will be highly knowledgeable in the field of English and American Literature, have a passion for the research, teaching and learning mission of the University, and understand the Libraries' role in the advancement of that mission. S/he will possess excellent communication, interpersonal, and team skills. This position offers an opportunity for strategic and interdisciplinary approaches to the selection, teaching, discovery, and delivery of digital and print information resources."

"* ALA-accredited master's degree in Library and Information Science or equivalent education and experience (subject expertise). * Advanced degree in English Literature or related discipline. * Demonstrated knowledge and experience with instruction, information literacy, and assessment of library services and resources. * Familiarity with new technologies, such as text-mining, network analysis, data-visualization, and other digital applications relevant to the study of English literature. * Commitment to user-centered library services. * Strong interest in technology and tools for research and teaching * Strong understanding of the key issues and trends in instruction, collection development, research, and reference in the subject area of English. * Knowledge of scholarly communication issues and trends within the literature disciplines. * Evidence of excellent communication, public  speaking, teaching, writing and analytical skills. * Commitment to fostering a diverse educational environment and workplace and an ability to work effectively with a diverse faculty, staff, and student population. * Demonstrated willingness to respond to new opportunities with initiative, creative energy, and leadership. * Evidence of active participation, involvement, and leadership in local, state, regional, national, or international professional or scholarly associations."

"* Practical knowledge of ACRL's Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education. * Experience working with Aleph, ALMA, vendor sites, like YBP's GOBI, libguides, LibAnswers, and other assessment tools. * Background and/or interest in other humanities disciplines, such as comparative literature or classics."



"Reporting to the Humanities Team Leader, the Humanities Librarian will be involved and engaged in the entire lifecycle of research, teaching and learning processes. S/he will collaborate with and support faculty in course-specific ways, including providing point-of-need instruction sessions and assignments, research guides and/or tutorials. Focused primarily on the English department, the\ librarian will provide a full range of subject specific library services to include collection development, consultation, instruction, reference services, and assessment. The librarian will also work closely with other librarians and units to understand and integrate area research and curricular needs with the Libraries' collections and services. Partnering with fellow subject librarians, other Library & Information Technology Services (LITS) units, and campus organizations, the Humanities Librarian will work to create and sustain strong relationships with the Manuscript, Archives, & Rare Book Library (MARBL), Emory's Center for Digital Scholarship (ECDS), and Academic Technology Services to engage in evolving campus digital scholarship initiatives. Finally, s/he also will work the reference desk an average of 3 hours a week. Specific duties include: * Serves as primary liaison to and actively develops professional relationships with faculty, students and staff in assigned subject area. May include other areas within the Humanities Team if needed. * Plans and delivers innovative reference and instruction services; teaches research tools and skills relevant to the discipline, develops content for subject-based web pages, and collaborates with faculty to achieve information and digital literacies and archival pedagogy learning outcomes in course-specific ways. * Provides in-depth, specialized consultation in support of the entire research lifecycle; contributes to University efforts to assess and promote institutional scholarship. * Assists faculty engaged in digital scholarship projects and teaching-and-learning-with-technology initiatives; collaborates as needed with ECDS and Academic Technology Services. * Partners with other libraries, especially research services in MARBL, to promote teaching and research with primary evidence materials. * Develops and manages excellent electronic, multimedia, and print collections in English and American literature to support the research and teaching needs of the Emory University community, promotes resources using current tools and technologies, and collaborates with colleagues in related fields to acquire materials, especially the curators in MARBL. * Provides marketing and assessment of library services. * Participates in professional and scholarly associations. * Maintains up-to-date professional knowledge and skills in areas related to primary job assignment as well as maintains general knowledge of current trends in higher education, academic libraries, and information and educational technology. * Adheres to guidelines outlined in the Handbook Governing the Librarian series for Faculty-Equivalent Librarians to ensure appointment, appointment renewal and promotion-in-rank * Participates in library and campus committees as appropriate for service purposes."
