1/29/2016

"Utah State University (USU) Libraries seek an innovative, collaborative, and proactive librarian to contribute to the management of the Libraries' digital scholarship efforts, including the university's institutional repository, DigitalCommons@USU, and other scholarly communication activities. DigitalCommons@USU is a thriving resource well poised for growth and deeper integration with teaching and research at USU. The successful candidate will have a keen interest in the extensive scholarly communication landscape including: digital publishing and preservation, open access, open education, open data, and related intellectual property issues. Reporting to the Head of Digital Initiatives, the position is a 12-month, tenure track faculty appointment with rank as Assistant Librarian. The Digital Scholarship Librarian works both independently and in a collaborative environment to educate the USU community about the creation and use of digital content with particular emphasis on DigitalCommons and the Digital Library. This includes promoting DigitalCommons@USU as a tool to curate and disseminate creative and scholarly work and advancing both DigitalCommons and the Digital Library as resources to enhance research and teaching activities across the USU campuses. This position also contributes to efforts to raise awareness of related issues such as open access, open educational resources, data management, and copyright."

"Required Qualifications:*	ALA-accredited Masters degree (awarded or near complete)*	Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills*	Knowledge of current trends and issues in scholarly communication, digital publishing and preservation, and data management*	Demonstrated problem solving skills*	Ability to set and follow through on both individual and team priorities*	Interest in learning new technologies and working in a dynamic environment*	Excellent analytical, organizational, and time management skills*	Ability to meet the university's requirements for promotion and tenurePreferred Qualifications:*	Project management experience *	Experience in an academic library setting*	Familiarity with rights management issues in digital environmentsFamiliarity with repository platforms"

Digital Scholarship

"*	Develop and implement scholarly communication programs and initiatives.*	Manage the development and growth of DigitalCommons@USU and coordinate outreach to support these efforts.*	Build and maintain collaborative partnerships with faculty, researchers, and other campus units.*	Promote and support USU's Open Access Policy and data management efforts across campus.*	Promote the use of library resources as digital scholarship and support library efforts to integrate these resources into the curriculum.*	Work collaboratively across the Library to identify and promote digital tools to enhance research and teaching.*	Serve as a subject librarian to one or more academic disciplines."
