7/24/2015

"The University of Georgia Libraries invites applications for the position of Digital Humanities Coordinator. The successful candidate will be responsible to the Deputy University Librarian for helping to administer and coordinate the diverse activities and programs of the Willson Center Digital Humanities Lab (DigiLab) of the University of Georgia in support of faculty and student projects and the undergraduate digital humanities certificate program (DIGI). This is a non-tenured track faculty position. Duties include collaborating with the other departments within the University Libraries, UGA Press, Willson Center for Humanities and Arts, New Georgia Encyclopedia and other project partners, as well as working closely with the DigiLab Steering Committee Chair. Duties associated with coordination of the DIGI program include establishing a relationship with academic departments and support units in the Franklin College of Arts and Sciences and other colleges and units; supporting the work of the DigiLab Steering Committee Chair, and maintaining the DigiLab website and social media presence. The position will also participate in and coordinate training activities in digital humanities for faculty, graduate, and undergraduate students, as well as plan campus activities and events designed to increase interest and involvement in digital humanities across the campus in cooperation with other university units."

"Master's degree in a humanities-related field; Post-Baccalaureate training in digital humanities or two years of relevant experience; Experience in digital humanities project management; Working experience with at least one set of digital humanities research tools and approaches (e.g., text mining, data visualization, image analysis, GIS, web applications); Familiarity with research methodologies across a variety of humanities disciplines; Excellent written and oral communication skills; Demonstrated ability to work independently within a framework of assigned responsibilities; Demonstrated ability to collaborate and communicate with a broad range of stakeholders; Excellent interpersonal skills and demonstrated ability to work with diverse faculty, students and colleagues."

"Knowledge of relevant programming languages; Experience working in interdisciplinary, collaborative teams is highly desirable; Experience writing grants."



"*Provides coordination, advising, and instruction as needed for the DIGI undergraduate certificate program. *Facilitates operation of the DigiLab Advisory Committee and local DigiLab Steering Committee. *Solicits guidance/feedback from DigiLab Advisory Committee members, external advisors, and other authorities identified via site visits and other means for the purposes of assessment and strategic planning. *Organizes interdisciplinary dialog among UGA and other faculty to establish the DigiLab as focal point/common ground for the digital humanities activity of UGA. *Coordinates with the University Libraries, UGA Press, Willson Center For Humanities and Arts, New Georgia Encyclopedia and other project partners on operation of the DigiLab at the Main Library. *Consults with humanities faculty and students on digital tools and methodologies to support their research projects and coursework. *Plans digital humanities activities and events across campus. *Communicates and promotes the projects and work supported by the DigiLab. *Stays current with technology, scholarship, and other issues impacting digital humanities. Works with regional, national, and international colleagues and digital humanities labs/centers. *Prepares a white paper studying the University of Georgia digital humanities infrastructure and services and developing recommendations for future management and ongoing evaluation. Maintains flexibility and assumes other similar duties and responsibilities as assigned. *Essential duties of the position."
