9/10/2015

"The University of Alabama seeks a faculty librarian to hold a split appointment (60/40) in the University Libraries and the Department of English to continue our excellent support of digital scholarship at The University of Alabama.  In addition to conducting his or her own research and teaching in the Department of English, the successful candidate will serve as an ambassador within the University of Alabama faculty to promote the resources and community of the Alabama Digital Humanities Center (ADHC)."







"The successful candidate will devote 60% time to outreach activities promoting the digital humanities and the mission of the ADHC and 40% time to conducting his or her own research and teaching in the Department of English, likely one course per semester, including: * Teach at the graduate and undergraduate levels within the candidate's academic specialty and in keeping with departmental needs. * Conduct appropriate scholarly research within the candidate's academic specialty. * Work closely with the Libraries faculty and staff in organizing and leading lunch discussions, training workshops, and other public events related to the digital humanities. As the ADHC operates in a team atmosphere, the successful candidate will be expected to take an active role in the established community to help the ADHC maintain a responsive environment and to assess its impact. * Provide consultations by appointment to work with faculty and students on digital humanities projects. * Coordinate the ADHC speaker series. * Promote the work of the ADHC, including communications about ADHC events and projects, publishing web site content, and engaging with the ADHC community through social media. * Offer relevant workshops throughout the academic year. * Guide the planning and execution of events such as THATCamp Alabama and the Digitorium. * Supervise one technical specialist. The position will report to the Associate Dean for Branch Libraries and Digital Student Services to whom the digital humanities center reports in the Libraries. The tenure home for this position is the University Libraries and progress toward promotion and tenure will be governed by the University of Alabama Faculty Handbook and Supplemental Criteria and Standards for Promotion and Tenure for University Libraries Faculty. Evaluative feedback with regard to teaching and research in the Department of English will be provided to the University Libraries by the English department chair."
