10/12/2015

"The University of Delaware Library seeks a creative, enthusiastic professional for the position of Digital Humanities and Web Services Librarian. Reporting to the Head, Library Server and Data Management Department in the Library Technologies and Digital Initiatives Division, the position works closely with colleagues throughout the library in three areas of primary responsibility:"

" ALA accredited graduate library degree. Demonstrated experience in web design and content creation.  Demonstrated experience working effectively with HTML, CSS, and Wordpress.  Familiarity with Javascript, PHP, XSLT and XML.  Familiarity with emerging trends in digital humanities and data mining.  Ability to write concisely and effectively for the web. Excellent interpersonal skills. Ability to communicate technical information to users with various levels of technology experience.  Ability to work collaboratively with people of diverse backgrounds.  Ability to manage multiple priorities in fast-paced, rapidly changing technical environment.  Demonstrated aptitude for detail oriented work including strong analytic and problem solving skills.  Excellent organization, planning, and decision-making skills. "





"Facilitate and provide support to University of Delaware digital humanities initiatives. Work collaboratively with library colleagues and campus faculty in creating scholarly projects in the humanities. Provide guidance to and maintain a working knowledge of available library and campus resources. Evaluate existing tools and technologies and investigate emerging technologies for potential uses in humanities research. Provide training and group instruction and partner with other library colleagues in outreach. Coordinate the University of Delaware Library web environment, which provides worldwide access to collections, services and resources. Create new original content. Maintain and enhance existing web content and delivery. Assess and monitor the functionality of Library web content delivery, as well as the visual display of content. Ensure user accessibility. Assist library staff in the development and implementation of new web content and services. Create documentation, compile user statistics and analysis reports. Facilitate communication regarding web trends and new resources. Collaborate with library colleagues to plan and manage web projects to increase electronic access to Library content and collections, particularly unique and scholarly materials from the Library's digital collections. Participate in the design, implementation, and enhancement of content delivery systems such as REST (Representational State Transfer), Omeka and XTF (eXtensible Text Framework). Collaborate with other colleagues on open web resources, digital asset management, and content sharing initiatives, such as the GLAM (Galleries, Libraries, Archives, and Museums) Wikiproject."
