10/16/2015

"The Digital Scholarship Coordinator at LLILAS Benson Latin American Studies and Collections partners with faculty, librarians and staff to promote the use of digital technologies to enhance teaching, learning and research at UT Austin, with a focus on Latin American Studies."

"Masters degree in a discipline relevant to the study of Latin America. Specialization in, or thorough knowledge of, the history and culture of Latin America and the Caribbean. Professional working proficiency in Spanish. At least 3 years professional experience using technology for digital scholarship or in the digital humanities. Experience developing and managing a portfolio of digital projects and/or providing stewardship for large collections of digital assets. Excellent interpersonal, collaborative, and communication skills, including the ability to convey technical concepts to non technical audiences. Ability to lead multiple projects effectively, to manage competing priorities, and to work under pressure of tight and competing deadlines. Ability to thrive in a culture of constant change and to foster that capacity in others. Equivalent combination of relevant education and experience may be substituted as appropriate."

"PhD relevant to the study of Latin America or Masters degree in Library Information Sciences from ALA-accredited program. Classroom or workshop teaching experience. Project or portfolio management experience. Supervision experience. Experience working collaboratively on digital initiatives. Experience writing code to build and manage digital collections, digital assets, and websites, including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and scripting or programming languages and frameworks such as Django, Python, PHP, or Ruby. Experience managing web-based collections and sites with a front end framework or CMS (Foundation, Drupal, or Wordpress). Experience building and managing collections in a repository or DAMS environment (Fedora, Hydra, Islandora, Dspace). Experience using metadata schemas and standards (MODS, METS, Dublin Core, TEI, EAD). Experience using digital tools, platforms, and third-party applications (Scalar, Omeka, Neatline, HistoryPin, StoryMaps). Experience with data visualization and data mining tools and applications. Experience with born digital acquisitions, including web archiving. Experience with metadata crosswalking and migration (Open Refine, XSLT, Oxygen XML editor, Excel)."



"Digital Strategy and Technology: Provide leadership for the incorporation of emerging digital technologies and research methodologies into scholarly activities of the social sciences and humanities at UT Austin; partner with UT Libraries Digital Scholarship team to expand the use of digital technologies in Latin American Studies research, teaching, learning, and scholarly communications; advise on best practices and emerging trends in digital pedagogy and work to design courses and workshops. LLILAS Benson Digital Scholarship: Implement and oversee digital scholarship program activities, including faculty and student fellowships, annual workshop, lectures and seminars; prepare and manage the LLILAS Benson digital scholarship annual budget; hire, train, and supervise graduate research assistants; coordinate implementation of current grant-funded initiatives and pursue new grants and other funding opportunities in support of digital initiatives and digital scholarship. Digital Initiatives: Work with LLILAS Benson digital initiatives team to provide stewardship for the portfolio of Latin American digital collections; work with UT Libraries, TACC, Learning Sciences, LAITS, and other technology groups at UT to ensure adequete technology and developer support for LLILAS Benson digital scholarship and digital initiatives; conduct scholarly communication outreach and instruction on intellectual property issues, open access, and opportunities for digital publishing. Marginal/Incidental functions Other related functions as assigned."
