1/27/2016



"* An ALA-accredited MLS or MLIS degree or PhD in relevant subject area or an equivalent combination of education and experience. * Experience with digital arts and humanities research tools and approaches (e.g., text mining, data visualization, image analysis, and augmented reality). * Knowledge of data issues in the research/knowledge creation lifecycle. * Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively with faculty, subject librarians, special collections and others in order to advance digital arts and humanities research."

"* Experience in developing a multifaceted program for a multidisciplinary constituency. * Familiarity with research methodologies across a variety of arts and humanities disciplines. * Demonstrated project management, organizational, analytical, and problem solving skills. * Familiarity with data visualization tools and techniques applied to humanities research. * Experience representing a library to external stakeholders and engaging in consortial projects or programs. * Demonstrated ability to lead change."



"The Digital Humanities Librarian will establish and grow a dynamic, multifaceted program that addresses the growing demand for digital arts and humanities support on campus. Working with arts and humanities scholars, faculty and students, the Digital Humanities Librarian will foster successful adoption and application of digital arts and humanities approaches to research, teaching, and learning. The librarian will engage deeply with the Digital Arts and Humanities scholars around campus, the Goldberg Center, the Humanities Institute, ACCAD (Advanced Computer Center for the Arts and Design), and other campus entities to identify innovative and evolving digital tools and resources that advance scholarly investigation, while building upon the traditional cornerstones of research methodologies in the arts and humanities disciplines. As a member of the Research Services Department, which leads the Libraries in creating new, engagement-centered service models based in cross-university partnerships, the Digital Humanities Librarian will be a change agent, partner, and resource person for subject librarians, Research Commons staff, and Special Collections curators involved in facilitating faculty and student digital projects and will be expected to analyze and understand the campus environment to identify emerging areas of interest. This tenure-track librarian will have responsibility for providing user-centered services in support of teaching, research, and scholarship as a liaison to a humanities discipline and will approach the delivery of services with creativity and innovation to align with the Libraries' Strategic Plan and to operate within the Engaged Librarian Framework. Responsibilities: Liaison * Actively engage and communicate effectively with faculty, students, and staff in assigned areas, developing strong working relationships. * Be knowledgeable and able to speak about a range of library issues, including scholarly communication, digital initiatives, the use and development of online tools, copyright, data management, and the integration of information literacy skills into the curriculum. * With support from the Libraries' Assessment Coordinator, assess user needs to develop and maintain relevant, high-quality services and collections. * Work with other arts and humanities subject librarians to analyze trends in departmental teaching and research programs, stay abreast of scholarship in the disciplines themselves, and use this knowledge to anticipate users' needs. * Work closely with the Head of the Fine Arts Library, the Data Management Services Librarian, the Research Commons Manager, Special Collections Curators, the Head of Digital Initiatives, and others in order to develop strategies focused on scholars' digital production and curation needs. * Champion the Libraries as an intellectual meeting place for programming, content, and inquiry. Research Services * Analyze and understand users' research and information needs to develop, refine, assess, and sustain research and information services and programs in all formats. * Actively seek opportunities to foster interdisciplinary collaborations in the provision of research and information services across the campus. * Partner with OSUL Digital Initiatives and Research Commons to identify and evaluate current and emerging digital tools and methodologies supporting humanities scholars. * Coordinate information about digital arts and humanities scholarship on campus in order to connect scholars across the disciplines and facilitate interdisciplinary conversation and collaboration. * Provide research consultations for students and faculty members engaged with digital arts and humanities projects and, as appropriate, with students and faculty aligned with the University's Discovery Themes particularly Data Analytics. * Continuously evaluate and assess research and information-related services. Teaching and Learning * Provide instruction, as needed on digital tools and methodologies to support digital humanities research and teaching. * Actively engage with faculty and graduate teaching assistants as partners in programmatically integrating information literacy concepts and skills into the curriculum. * Understand and apply basic principles of instructional and assignment design, develop effective instructional materials and sessions in a variety of formats and provide alternative learning opportunities. * Engage in reflective teaching through the use of instructional improvement tools available from the Libraries' Teaching & Learning Department and the university. Scholarly Communication * Understand the scholarly communication process, publishing models, and emerging trends in assigned disciplines. * Understand and explain the principles behind open access publishing, institutional repositories, and authors' rights. * Promote Ohio State University Libraries publishing partnership options. Collection Development and Management * Strategically select material in all formats to serve the current and future research, teaching, and learning needs in assigned subject areas. * Broaden access to collections through digital project initiatives and actively acquire and promote both licensed and freely available digital resources of value to researchers, particularly related to data. * Build on collections of distinction that may also serve regional, national and international users. * Work effectively with colleagues to enhance acquisition, access, discovery, and use of library collections."
