2/16/2016

"The Lafayette College Library invites applications for the new position of Assistant Director of Digital Scholarship Services (DSS). The successful candidate will be adaptable to changing technologies, excited to take on new challenges, and interested in helping to build a new model for digital humanities within the liberal arts context."

"* Advanced degree in relevant discipline * 2-3 years of project management experience * Demonstrated proficiency in one or more areas of DH (e.g. text mining, data visualization, mapping etc.) * Post-secondary teaching experience"





"In support of our holistic approach to digital scholarship from classroom to large-scale research projects, the Assistant Director, in collaboration with a research and instruction librarian colleague, will be the driver of student engagement and integration of DH methods into the curriculum. S/he will work alongside the DSS director, who leads development of digital library infrastructure, implementation of long-term faculty research projects, and library digitization efforts. The Director and Assistant Director will work together with librarians from the departments of Research and Instruction and Special Collections to develop strategic goals for digital scholarship and to advance the community of digital practitioners on campus. The Assistant Director will play a critical role on the Library's DSS team in connecting diverse stakeholders across campus including developers, faculty, librarians, and students. Responsibilities include outreach programs such as public presentations, workshops, the recruitment of outside speakers, publicity for existing projects and initiatives, and the identification of potential long-term projects for DSS development. Other responsibilities include co-directing student internships and facilitating student research projects; helping faculty and students articulate project requirements; and managing cloud-based DH tools in support of these goals. We seek applicants with a commitment to the mission and ethos of the academic library community. In accordance with Lafayette Library's extensive involvement with professional and scholarly organizations, programs, and initiatives (e.g. DLF, CNI, DuraSpace), applicants should have a strong interest in active participation on a national level. Main Responsibilities * Project management * Digital project consultation and development * Strategic planning * Direction of student research projects * Maintain active knowledge of current DH methods and tools * Facilitate workshops and presentations * Coordinate communication and outreach including web content writing and social media * Foster the community of DH practitioners on campus * Connect digital projects with the teaching and research mission of the library"
