2/18/2016



"* One of the following: M.S., M.L.S., or M.A. * Proficiency in an academic discipline. * Demonstrated experience in project management and facilitation of teamwork. * Demonstrated knowledge of Web development using PHP, HTML, CSS, and Javascript, and familiarity with content management systems such as Omeka, Wordpress, and Drupal * Demonstrated experience with Python programming language and Django web framework or capacity to acquire these skills quickly. * Demonstrated knowledge of GIS technologies and web mapping platforms * Demonstrated experience with digital asset management (DAM) systems (i.e. CONTENTdm, EmbARK Collection Manager, DSpace, and/or alternative), programming and other relevant skills. * Working knowledge of most common library metadata formats * Demonstrates knowledge of key issues related to information access and management * Demonstrated knowledge of databases and data structures * Knowledge of current and emerging technologies in digital and Web-based library services * Demonstrated experience in project management. * Strong analytical skills; strong understanding of research methods. * Experience with library technology, reference, instruction, and outreach services. * Background in, knowledge of, and a record of achievement with digital scholarship and services. Demonstrated knowledge of emerging trends in digital scholarship. * Self-directed and collaborative. Goal-oriented."

"* Experience with system administration and web servers. Experience developing and troubleshooting applications using scripting, programming and database languages. * Intermediate to advanced knowledge of Web-related markup languages, features, and protocols including HTML, CSS, PHP etc. * Dual advanced degrees ,M.A. and M.L.S.; M.L.S. and M.A., or Ph.D."



"Creatively engages in support of faculty and students involved in digital scholarship. Participates in the development of digital projects and collections by providing a full range of reference, instruction, and collection development/management, preservation, and metadata services for all areas of digital scholarship.. Supports and serves as a resource to colleagues in developing digital projects. Contributes to and supports the digital and online presence of the Library through the investigation, implementation and enhancement of tools that assist with research, instruction and scholarship. Participates in Web-development team. Actively participates in and contributes to the Tri-College Group. Reports to Coordinator for Digital Scholarship and Services. * Provides strong reference services and support of faculty and students in the area of digital scholarship. * Partners with faculty, students, and library staff on digital scholarship projects in all stages including design, proposal, development, maintenance, and preservation. * Leads instruction of workshops for digital scholarship tools and methods for faculty, students, and library staff. * Coordinates with Information Technology staff to maintain virtual server infrastructure and planning for future needs. * Ensures adherence to best practices for digital project development, preservation, accessibility, copyright, open access. * Supports the integration of metadata across a variety of library and archive applications following standards and the rules for description of digital objects. * Develops, implements and test potential tools in the digital humanities and digital scholarship. * Coordinates instruction and development of curriculum for Digital Scholarship Fellows program * Provides leadership for the development and integration of technologies to enhance the library's research and instruction services. * Hires and manages student workers during academic year and for summer project period. * Evaluates feasibility of proposed projects and initiatives within the local environment; ensures that assessment plans are developed as part of any new initiatives. * Engages in assessment of user behavior and needs related to digital scholarship. * Manages content for Digital Scholarship section of the library website. * Participates in ongoing digital repository work of the College and the Tri-College. * Advises on library policy issues raised by digital resources such as copyright policy, intellectual freedom issues, fair use, e-privacy concerns or censorship of Internet content. * Participates in development of Tri-College technology projects and working groups. * Remains current with advances in information technology's impact on libraries and digital scholarship. Actively contributes to the profession. * Familiarity with academic and scholarly research practices. * Demonstrates initiative in developing projects."
