2/24/2016

"Help us build the 21st century library-the heart of research and teaching at this remarkable institution. The new university strategic plan released in November features the library. Join us to turn the plan from an aspiration into a reality. Carnegie Mellon University Libraries has multiple openings for Liaison Librarians and Specialists. We are looking for individuals eager to engage deeply with faculty, researchers, and students in the domains of business & economics, digital humanities, psychology, biology, chemistry, computer science, robotics, engineering, and philosophy. Liaison Librarians may be assigned responsibility for several departments or specialized areas (e.g. data management, bibliometrics) based on discipline knowledge and background."

"* MLS/MLIS from an ALA-accredited institution or academic course work and/or significant related experience or advanced degree in the disciplines listed in the second paragraph. * Understanding of: * Data management planning * Current issues in scholarly communication * Emerging technologies, tools, and trends in digital research, scholarship and with the use of technology in teaching in higher education * Familiarity with the use of data in research and teaching * Excellent organizational, communication, and presentation skills * Strong interpersonal skills with the ability to effectively interact with diverse groups including colleagues, faculty, students, and administrators in collaborative team environments * Demonstrated ability to work independently or as part of a team."

"*  A Ph.D. or a graduate degree in a relevant discipline.  * Experience providing research support in an academic library setting. * Knowledge of the issues surrounding scholarly communications and data management planning. * Experience with HTML, CSS, Javascript, PHP, Python, etc. * Experience with GIS, statistical software, or other specialized data processing and data production applications"



"Carnegie Mellon is especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through their research, teaching and/or service, and have a demonstrated record in working with international and under-represented minority students. Liaison Librarians and Specialists focus on the teaching, learning, and research needs of faculty and students through deep engagement with constituents in assigned disciplines, fields, and programs. Liaison and Specialist responsibilities include but are not limited to: * Cultivation of new models of engagement by partnering with faculty, staff and students to create value-added services, resources and programs. * Data management consultation and research data services. * Instruction offered in classes and in library workshops. * Creation of research and resource guides, including LibGuides on specific topics and for classes as needed. * Participation on research teams. * Promotion of bibliometrics tools and services. * Selection of resources supporting curricular priorities and research needs. * Subject specific reference and research consultations and general reference queries. * Support for the research and publishing life cycle through promotion of the institutional repository and scholarly communication including open access. Each Librarian and Specialist is responsible for maintaining a current knowledge of librarianship and discipline knowledge relevant to assigned departments, programs, centers, and schools. Furthermore every Librarian/Specialist is expected to develop a record of research and scholarship related to librarianship or to relevant aspects of the information landscape of their disciplinary expertise. The incumbent participates in governance and projects through various committees and working groups as assigned or elected."
