3/8/2016

"The Pennsylvania State University Libraries are currently seeking a Digital Humanities Design Consultant who is a creative researcher interested in exploring an “alternative academic” career and in expanding the modes of humanistic research through emerging and existing technologies.  The person in this position will be a critical part of initiating services and programs in support of the digital humanities at Penn State, and will work as an intellectual partner with faculty, students and staff in the College of the Liberal Arts.  The successful candidate will be able to work effectively between the boundaries of various humanities disciplines to help Penn State develop its digital humanities research programs.  He or she will collaborate effectively and translate ideas and concepts between diverse audiences to enable the creation of new knowledge and will have fluency with a variety of technologies and direct experience in bringing technology to bear on research and teaching.   This is a fixed-term (multi-year), non-tenure track, 2-year appointment based in the Publishing and Curation Services department within the University Libraries and carries the rank of Assistant Librarian.   This position reports to the Digital Content Strategist, but will be jointly funded by the College of the Liberal Arts. "

"Requires an advanced degree in a humanities field; demonstrated proficiency/fluency with one or more technologies commonly used in digital humanities projects, such as database design and development, XML-encoding, GIS; experience deploying information technology tools/services in his or her own research; excellent communication skills; and a strong service orientation."

a PhD in a humanities field and a record of professional presentations and/or publications.



"The Digital Humanities Design Consultant will be hired as part of The Humanities in a Digital Age initiative (HDA). HDA is intended to enrich and promote rigorous cross-disciplinary humanities scholarship and research, to open new opportunities for high caliber graduate placements in the humanities, and to enrich the undergraduate experience by providing undergraduate students access to and support for cutting-edge humanities research. This initiative will help develop new services to support digitally enriched scholarship by graduate students and faculty in a wider range of fields. Working together, the Libraries and the College of Liberal Arts intend to build a community of practice for the digital humanities at Penn State through programming, services, and research collaborations. The consultant will be encouraged to conduct/continue their own research. He or she will participate in national and/or international initiatives or professional activities which promote the development of a shared humanities research infrastructure. Responsibilities: ? Work directly with researchers to provide project definition and analysis, such as project scope, requirements, specifications and/or design. ? Evaluate existing tools and technologies, and investigates emerging technologies to identify potential uses in humanities research. ? Prototype demonstration projects and/or implements tools for use by others. ? Collaborate with colleagues in the Libraries, Liberal Arts, and Information Technology Services to help ensure harmony among various technology infrastructures and needs. ? Provide limited technical support for digital humanities research projects, including implementation of tools, technology, etc. to help researcher achieve goals. ? Provide training, group instruction or workshops."
