3/15/2016



"This position requires a Master's Degree in Library Science from an ALA-accredited institution. The Digital Scholarship Librarian role requires at least two years of directly related experience. The Senior Digital Scholarship Librarian role requires a minimum of five years of directly related experience. * Demonstrated experience in the application of digital scholarship methods and technologies to investigate research questions, including but not limited to visualization, mapping, statistical analysis, text mining and encoding, and other computational methods. * Practical knowledge of and experience with a range of tools for the analysis and display of information, such as online exhibit tools, social media, scanning / OCR, data visualization, geospatial analysis, encoding and text mining, programming and scripting languages, format conversion and editing protocols and tools, graphic design, relational databases, metadata schema, and open web standards. * Superior oral and written communication skills across service, scholarly, and technology domains. * Demonstrated knowledge and experience developing and managing research collections, with library instruction experience and a commitment to responsive and quality library services. Must be able to provide work collaboratively within a team environment."





"These Digital Scholarship Librarian / Bibliographer positions advance digital scholarship by providing research services, technical support, and project management assistance, focusing on applications in the humanities, as well as providing liaison services for either the English or History Department. S/he maintains knowledge and practical expertise in an evolving interdisciplinary landscape of digital scholarship tools and methods. S/he works with researchers and the Digital Scholarship Team to define the scope, methodology, technology, and specifications and/or design of digital projects; collaborates with librarians and other campus agencies to develop outreach strategies and partnerships with faculty and students supporting digital research projects; assesses trends in digital scholarship, identifying priorities for the attention of BC Libraries; and effectively deploys technical, scholarly, and project management skills to bring digital projects to completion. This position is the primary liaison to the English or History Department, offering research support and library instruction; apprising faculty of new resources, evolving services and research tools; as well as introducing relevant technologies. Working with faculty, graduate and undergraduate students, s/he effectively responds to requests, offers instruction, and manages the relevant collections, evaluating and selecting monographs and journals to support research and teaching needs. Reporting to the Head of Digital Scholarship, the Librarian makes significant contributions to library digital initiatives through development of the digital scholarship program and by acting as a model and a resource for other Reference Librarians and Bibliographers. Supports faculty, as well as post-docs, graduate students, and undergraduate students in their research and teaching. Provides direction for some student employee work activities."
