3/15/2016



"* ALA-accredited Master's degree in Library or Information Science or an advanced degree in an appropriate subject discipline is required. * Minimum five years of work experience in a research setting, with 2+ years of managerial experience preferred. * Exceptional technology skills, knowledge of current trends, and ability to evaluate and apply new technologies. Knowledge of and demonstrated experience working with web tools and interfaces, xml standards, digital library systems, and metadata standards. * Demonstrated experience in applying and/or developing tools and methods, such as data visualization (eg statistical or geo-spatial), network analysis, text analysis (i.e. topic modeling), text encoding, or database design. * Experience leading or managing digital humanities or digital scholarship projects in an academic setting * Substantial demonstrated experience in planning, managing and delivering strategic research projects, and articulating the opportunities of digital research to scholars and librarians * Demonstrated project management skills and experience - both leading and working within complex project teams , while effectively balancing competing priorities and deadlines * Experience contributing to grant applications, with a successful track record in the management of funding and awards * Excellent interpersonal, collaborative, written and oral communication skills * Experience negotiating with vendors of technology services and equipment * Experience with programming languages, such as Ruby or Python and ability to deploy code in web contexts, such as HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, or similar, is highly desired."





"The Head of Digital Scholarship will lead the team and colleagues across the libraries to envision, plan and deliver innovative and sustainable digital research services in concert with student, faculty, and library needs. Through exploration of new technologies, and engagement with digital scholarship and digital library practices, standards and systems, this individual will provide strong leadership, coordination, and project management for the team. The Head will possess a strong technical background to direct the selection and implementation of appropriate technologies and develop the skill set of the team. He or she will: oversee all requests for new digital scholarship initiatives; contribute to discussions of digital collection building with creative ideas for meaningful new uses of digital content and an understanding of data curation; and develop services in support of introducing digital research methods and approaches, supporting engagement with new audiences. The Head will engage in outreach and maintain relationships with faculty, staff and campus partners to enable digital research and development of the digital scholarship program at Boston College and beyond. Reporting to the Associate University Librarian for Digital Initiatives & Services, the Head of Digital Scholarship manages a team of four, and coordinates the relationship with two Systems staff. The Head oversees the Libraries' Digital Scholarship program, which can include outreach to faculty and service via the Digital Studio, and manages key relationships with university departments and partners such as the Center for Teaching Excellence, Institute for Liberal Arts, and ITS Research Services. In concert with the Head of Assessment & Outreach, the Head will collect and analyze use statistics, prepare reports, and make recommendations for digital research and scholarship for the Boston College Libraries."
