3/25/2016

"Vassar College Libraries seeks collaborative and entrepreneurial candidates for the position of Head of Digital Scholarship and Technology Services. The incumbent will work closely with colleagues to advance the Libraries' efforts to work with faculty and students pursuing digitally-enhanced modes of learning and research. Along with partners in the Libraries as well as Computing and Information Services, the Head of Digital Scholarship and Technology Services will identify and develop digital projects, technological resources, physical and virtual spaces, and training opportunities that address emerging needs across disciplines. The successful candidate will help to sustain and enhance the Libraries' longstanding strengths in digital collections, metadata expertise, and long-term stewardship, merging them with faculty work in the digital humanities and digitally-enhanced learning, and offering services to address changing practices in scholarly communications. The Head of Digital Scholarship and Technology Services will consult with faculty, students, and colleagues using emerging tools and methods (e.g. text mining, data visualization, mapping), and work alongside colleagues to develop training and programming that builds the college's capacity to support work in these areas. The incumbent will actively maintain awareness of issues in digital scholarship, and facilitate workshops and presentations to develop broader awareness and to foster a community of practitioners on campus. The Head of Digital Scholarship and Technology Services also oversees the Libraries' digital technologies department, which includes three professionals with library-wide responsibilities for digital collections, digital repository services, and library systems. In this role, the incumbent will work with colleagues to ensure that the libraries' uses of technologies are aligned with and responsive to pedagogical and scholarly work at the college, and that the libraries' technical and user services are well-supported to serve the academic mission."

"* Advanced degree in a relevant discipline, or, MLS/MLIS * Significant and progressively responsible experience engaging with and managing digital scholarly activities at an academic institution. * Demonstrated proficiency with one or more methodologies common to digital humanities research (e.g. text mining, data visualization, mapping) * Demonstrated ability to manage complex projects with a diverse team of stakeholders. * Working knowledge of one or more programming or scripting languages commonly used in DH projects (e.g. Python, Javascript, Processing) * Familiarity with common digital humanities software (e.g. Omeka, Neatline, D3.js) * Familiarity with common library metadata formats * Commitment to collaboration and the ability to work cooperatively across organizational and disciplinary boundaries. * Competence and sensitivity in working at a college in which students are broadly diverse with regard to many facets of identity, including but not limited to gender, ethnicity, nationality, sexual orientation, and religion."
