4/11/2016

"The University of Colorado Boulder Libraries invites applications from collaborative and innovative candidates for the position of Digital Scholarship Librarian, a tenure-stream faculty position in the University Libraries. Faculty and graduate students in departments and programs across the CU-Boulder campus have demonstrated strong interest in interdisciplinary digital scholarship as evidenced by widespread participation in our ongoing “Exploring Digital Humanities” speaker and workshop series, hires of faculty with a digital focus, and plans to create a graduate digital humanities certificate."

- Master's Degree in Library and Information Science from an ALA-accredited institution OR relevant combination of a terminal degree and experience. - Demonstrated ability to collaborate with a broad range of stakeholders to further digital scholarship. -

" Demonstrated Experience investigating humanistic questions with digital tools. - Evidence of initiative and a Commitment to developing new skills. - Demonstrated enthusiasm and creativity in developing and advocating for new initiatives. - Successful grant-writing experience. - Experience working in an academic or research library. - Teaching Experience at the University level. - Experience mentoring others. - record of research, scholarly work, and professional service at the national level."



"The Digital Scholarship Librarian will foster partnerships that encourage the exploration and adoption of evolving modes of digital research and pedagogy on campus, particularly in the humanities. The successful candidate will work with colleagues in the CU-Boulder Libraries and campus units to build a community around digital scholarship on campus and in the region, help lead in the creation of a campus digital scholarship initiative, and identify and foster adoption of digital tools and methods that advance scholarship and teaching. The Digital Scholarship Librarian will consult and collaborate with faculty and student researchers on digital projects and with special collections librarians, archivists, subject librarians, IT specialists, and others involved in such projects in the Libraries. Significant parts of the responsibilities of this position are research/creative work and service in keeping with the tenure standards of the University of Colorado Boulder."
