4/11/2016

"The Z. Smith Reynolds Library in partnership with the WFU Humanities Institute seeks a creative, forward-thinking scholar for the new position of Digital Humanities Research Designer."

"Required Qualifications:

Advanced degree in a humanities field.
Demonstrated proficiency/fluency with tools currently used in digital scholarship, such as GIS, data visualization, social network analysis, etc.
Experience using digital humanities tools and approaches in their own research.
Experience teaching or leading workshops on digital humanities tools and/or methods to faculty and students.
Experience working collaboratively with other scholars and/or with IT professionals on projects related to digital scholarship.
Demonstrated ability to manage multiple projects, effectively identifying and leveraging resources, as well as meeting deadlines and budgets.
Excellent communication skills.
Strong service orientation."

"Desired Qualifications:

PhD in a humanities field.
Experience with development and management of projects, grants, and/or budgets.
Record of professional presentations and/or publication."



"The Digital Humanities Research Designer will be familiar with a range of technologies and have direct experience bringing digital approaches to bear on research and teaching. The scholar in this position will work as an intellectual partner with faculty, students, and staff at Wake Forest University.

The successful candidate will collaborate with humanities faculty and library colleagues to expand modes of humanistic research through emerging and existing technologies and design thinking. In providing research project support and conducting workshops on the use of various tools, for example, the Digital Humanities Research Designer will be able to translate and share ideas and concepts effectively across diverse interdisciplinary audiences. The Digital Humanities Research Designer will maintain currency in the field and may pursue their own research to do so.

The person in this position will engage in national and/or international initiatives or other professional activities promoting the development of a shared humanities research infrastructure. The Digital Humanities Research Designer will play a critical role in building services and programs to support the digital humanities at Wake Forest. Responsibilities:

Partners with researchers to facilitate project envisioning and definition, and advise about project scope, requirements, specifications, and/or design.
Evaluates existing tools and technologies, and investigates emerging technologies to identify potential uses in humanities research. Prototypes demonstration projects and/or implements tools for use by others.
Collaborates with colleagues in the Library and the Humanities Institute to coordinate services and programming in spaces that support digital scholarship.
Collaborates with colleagues in the Library, the Humanities Institute, and Information Technology Services to help ensure harmony among various technology infrastructures and needs.
Promotes and provides individual digital scholarship research consultations.
Provides limited technical support for digital humanities research projects, including implementation of tools, technology, etc. to help researchers achieve their goals.
Conducts training, group instruction, or workshops on topics related to digital humanities.
Collaborates within the Library and the Humanities Institute on building community and promoting digital scholarship tools and methods within the University to establish the Library as a central site of humanistic inquiry."
