4/30/2016

"Cornell University Library seeks a collegial, enthusiastic, and enterprising Digital Humanities Librarian skilled at using technology to support interdisciplinary digital projects in a wide array of subject areas, including but not limited to the digital humanities."

"* A graduate degree in a humanities discipline and demonstrated knowledge in the field of digital scholarship. * An MLIS/MLS/MIS from an ALA-accredited program OR relevant, professional experience or appropriate educational achievements. * A deep understanding of the research process and knowledge of the ways that new technologies are affecting the production of scholarship in the humanities and qualitative social sciences. * A strong commitment to public service in the research library environment. * Demonstrated experience in teaching effectively. * Experience with research tools and approaches (e.g., text mining, data visualization, image analysis, and augmented reality) in digital scholarship. * Demonstrated organizational, analytical, and problem solving skills. * Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively. * Excellent communication skills, both written and oral; good problem solving skills. * A commitment to continuous professional development through participation in local, regional, and national forums. * Ability to work effectively in a fast paced and rapidly-changing environment."

"* A Ph.D. in a humanities field, with a significant digital component. * Experience in developing a multifaceted program for a multidisciplinary constituency. * Experience representing a library to external stakeholders and engaging in consortial projects or programs. One of the leading academic research libraries in the United States, Cornell University Library is a highly valued partner in teaching, research and learning at the university. With an operating budget of over $58 million and a diverse and innovative staff of more than 400, the Library supports 2,700 faculty, 22,000 students and 94 PhD fields. Its world class collections, expert librarians, responsive services in physical and virtual library spaces inspire and nourish scholarship and learning."



"The Digital Humanities Librarian will contribute to and provide leadership for a growing dynamic, multifaceted program that addresses the demand for digital scholarship support on campus, primarily in the College of Arts and Sciences. Working with arts, humanities, and social sciences scholars, faculty, and students, the Digital Humanities Librarian will foster successful use and integration of digital approaches to research, teaching, and learning. The librarian will engage deeply with CUL's Digital Humanities Collaborative, staff in Digital Scholarship and Preservation Services, scholars around campus, the Society for the Humanities, and other campus entities to identify innovative and evolving digital tools and resources that advance scholarly investigation, while building upon the traditional research methodologies in the arts, humanities, and social sciences disciplines. As a member of the Olin/Uris Research and Learning Services Department, the Digital Humanities Librarian will be a partner and resource person for subject librarians and curators, and a liaison to and collaborator with the Digital Scholarship and Preservation Services unit. The Digital Humanities Librarian will be expected to analyze and understand the campus environment to identify emerging areas of interest. The librarian will have responsibility for providing user-centered services in support of teaching, research, and scholarship. The librarian will participate in RLS's instruction and workshop program, leading efforts to incorporate digital pedagogies and resources into the program. The librarian may serve as a liaison to an appropriate discipline, providing research consultations, instruction sessions, and other services, and will approach the delivery of services with creativity and innovation. The successful candidate will be able to demonstrate a broad understanding of scholarship in the digital environment, and have experience with one or more digital humanities/social sciences methodologies, e.g., text analysis, mining, and/or scholarly encoding, data visualization, social network analysis, and/or digital archives. The candidate will also have experience teaching and/or collaborating with faculty members in the design of courses and curricula employing digital methodologies and engaging in research that extends scholarship into the digital space. The candidate will have a strong grounding in library programs and services, especially those that support teaching and scholarship in the digital environment. The Digital Humanities Librarian will have a history of creating strong collaborative relationships with faculty, students, graduate students, IT stakeholders, and library staff."
