6/2/2016

"California State University Fullerton Pollak Library is seeking an energetic librarian who is innovative, technologically adept and service oriented, with a background in implementing and managing digital scholarship, publishing and scholarly communications programs at the university level."

"The Scholarly Communications & Digital Scholarship Librarian is responsible for developing and maintaining services to faculty, students and researchers through the implementation and maintenance of a scholarly digital repository and other publishing options involving targeted outreach and educational support to the Cal State Fullerton campus population; monitors current developments in scholarly communications, authors' rights, copyright law, Creative Commons licenses, open access, legislative initiatives, and institutional repositories; and shares that expertise with faculty, library staff, and students. The Scholarly Communications & Digital Scholarship Librarian works in collaboration with the California State University Chancellor's Office personnel and with institutional repository managers across the CSU on system-wide projects. The successful candidate will have: * Experience working with digital scholarship, digital libraries, and institutional repositories; * Outstanding written, verbal and interpersonal communication skills; * Project management experience, the ability to work collaboratively, and excellent problem solving skills; * Knowledge of data management requirements for federal grants and publishers. Positive tenure and promotion decisions require taking part in scholarly and professional activities and serving on department, library, and university committees."

"* Knowledge of current trends and issues in scholarly publishing, author self-archiving and publishers' policies, as well as knowledge of specific digital libraries and institutional repositories software. * Experience managing data in a Fedora-based repository system. * Experience creating and maintaining webpages in a Drupal content management system. * Proficiency in a variety of metadata standards, such as EAD, MSL, RDF Dublin Core, MODS, and state-of-the-art digitization practices. * Experience with text layout and web design, HTML5, CSS, PHP/MySQL."



"The Scholarly Communications & Digital Scholarship Librarian is responsible for developing and maintaining services to faculty, students and researchers through the implementation and maintenance of a scholarly digital repository and other publishing options involving targeted outreach and educational support to the Cal State Fullerton campus population; monitors current developments in scholarly communications, authors' rights, copyright law, Creative Commons licenses, open access, legislative initiatives, and institutional repositories; and shares that expertise with faculty, library staff, and students. The Scholarly Communications & Digital Scholarship Librarian works in collaboration with the California State University Chancellor's Office personnel and with institutional repository managers across the CSU on system-wide projects. The successful candidate will have: * Experience working with digital scholarship, digital libraries, and institutional repositories; * Outstanding written, verbal and interpersonal communication skills; * Project management experience, the ability to work collaboratively, and excellent problem solving skills; * Knowledge of data management requirements for federal grants and publishers. Positive tenure and promotion decisions require taking part in scholarly and professional activities and serving on department, library, and university committees."
