7/25/2016

"This Digital Scholarship Librarian / Bibliographer advances digital humanities by providing research services, technical support, and project management assistance, focusing on applications in the humanities, as well as providing liaison services for the History Department. S/he maintains knowledge and practical expertise in an evolving interdisciplinary landscape of digital humanities tools and methods. S/he works with researchers and the Digital Scholarship team to define the scope, methodology, technologies, specifications and/or design of digital projects; collaborates with librarians and other campus agencies to develop, partner with and support digital research in the field of History; assesses trends in digital humanities, identifying priorities for the attention of BC Libraries; and effectively deploys technical, scholarly, and project management skills to bring digital projects to completion. This position is the primary liaison to the History Department. Working with faculty, graduate and undergraduate students, s/he effectively responds to requests; offers research support and instruction; introduces relevant new resources, evolving services and research tools; and manages the History collections, evaluating and selecting monographs and journals to support research and teaching needs. Reporting to the Head of Digital Scholarship, the Librarian makes significant contributions to library digital initiatives through development of the digital humanities program and by acting as a model and a resource for other Reference Librarian/Bibliographers. Supports History Department faculty, as well as post-docs, graduate students, and undergraduate students in their research and teaching. Provides direction for some student employee work activities."

"* Master's Degree in Library Science from an ALA-accredited institution * The Digital Scholarship Librarian role requires at least two years of directly related experience with digital humanities and subject liaison responsibilities; the Senior Digital Scholarship Librarian role requires a minimum of five years of directly related experience. * Demonstrated application of digital humanities methods and technologies to investigate research questions, including but not limited to data visualization, mapping, statistical analysis, text mining and encoding, and other computational methods. * Practical knowledge of and experience with a range of established and emerging technologies, such as website creation, online exhibitions, social media, digitization and OCR, data visualization, geospatial analysis, encoding and text mining, programming and scripting languages, format conversion and editing protocols and tools, graphic design, relational databases, metadata schema, and open web standards. * Demonstrated knowledge of and experience supporting academic departments, including developing and managing research collections, providing research assistance, and teaching library instruction sessions. * Must have a commitment to responsive and quality library services. * Must be able to work collaboratively within a team environment. * Superior oral and written communication skills across service, scholarly, and technology domains."
