8/1/2016

"The University of New Mexico College of University Libraries and Learning Sciences (UL&LS) seeks a Digital Humanities Librarian. This position reports to the Director of Digital Initiatives and Scholarly Communication. This is a full-time, 12-month position with faculty rank and tenure status negotiable based on qualifications and experience. The desired start date is November 1, 2016. The annual salary is negotiable based on qualifications, with full benefits. The Digital Humanities Librarian will provide specialized reference, consulting and project development services to humanities students, faculty, and researchers at UNM. As the Libraries' designated expert in emerging humanities research tools and methods, this position will collaborate with library and academic colleagues across campus and throughout New Mexico to develop and promote innovative new digital scholarship services. This position will also serve as the Libraries' subject specialist for English, and as a member of the Digital Initiatives and Scholarly Communication unit, they will contribute to digital collections and access initiatives. The Digital Humanities Librarian will keep current with emerging research and instructional tools and technologies. They will establish and maintain strong relationships with colleagues and researchers and employ communication, organization, analytic, and problem-solving skills."

"* An earned master's degree from an ALA-accredited library/information sciences program or equivalent. * 1 year of experience with one or more digital humanities research tools and methods, such as text mining, scholarly encoding, data visualization, digital mapping, image analysis, or augmented reality."

"* Experience or demonstrated interest in working with faculty and students to support their research and instructional endeavors. * Knowledge of research methodologies across a variety of arts and humanities disciplines, including data visualization tools and techniques. * Demonstrated proficiency in core web technologies and standards: JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, Dublin Core, EAD, etc. * Demonstrated experience working with primary sources and conducting archival research. * Familiarity with scholarly publishing issues, such as copyright and open access. * Demonstrated initiative and proven ability to learn new technologies and adapt to changes in the profession. * Evidence of excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills. * Evidence of problem-solving and analytical skills. * A demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and student success, as well as working with broadly diverse communities."



"* Provides individual digital scholarship research consultations for humanities students and faculty. Evangelizes these services to the humanities academic departments. * Conducts presentations, class instruction and workshops on topics related to digital humanities. * Evaluates existing tools and technologies, and investigates emerging technologies to identify potential uses in humanities research. * Prototypes demonstration projects and/or implements tools for use by others. * Collaborates with colleagues in the Library and the humanities academic departments to develop and promote digital scholarship services for the arts and humanities. * Works on selected DISC digital collections projects and digital initiatives. Works on collaborative initiatives with the Center for Southwest Research, Latin American Collections, Indigenous Nations Library Program and Research Data Services. * Provides end user support for selected digital library resources and services hosted by the University Libraries. * Serves as subject specialist for English, performing consultation, instruction and collection development. * Possesses excellent oral and written communication skills. * Contributes to UL&LS initiatives that further UNM's commitment to diversity and inclusion. * May teach a credit course in the UL&LS Organization, Information, and Learning Sciences program."
