9/22/2016

"We invite an inventive and service-oriented person to join an expanding cross-functional team which is dedicated to supporting faculty and student use of digital information and computationally-based methods to achieve scholarly and research goals. Reporting to the Head of the Digital Scholarship & Curation Unit, outreach, branding and coordination of digital scholarship services will be a significant and immediate focus for this position. Growth and assessment of services are longer-term goals. Liaison with campus units currently involved in digital scholarship is a critical component of developing library services relevant to the MSU community. The Digital Scholarship Outreach Librarian will work with a team, including another digital scholarship librarian, to create externally-facing services in anticipation of a new Digital Scholarship lab. Services will be defined, including documentation of workflows, limitations, policies, procedures, and protocols. This person will be expected to investigate and implement software in support of service management, client relationship, and project tracking. This person will also create the content for a robust web presence and catalogue of digital scholarship services by partnering with Web Services and User Experience. Additional responsibilities, based on interest and experience of the candidate, may include humanities data curation, text & data mining, E-Science projects, high-performance computing, GIS, licensing, project management, or repository development. The successful candidate should be broadly focused and adventurous enough to expand or shift their range of responsibilities to meet evolving campus needs, as well as participate in an approximately quarter-time secondary assignment based on the needs of the library and candidate interests; may include work in areas such as user experience, web services, outreach, reference or collection development."

"Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program; familiarity with digital scholarship services such as research data management, maker spaces, digital repositories, GIS, digital humanities, digital social sciences or E-Science; broad understanding of emerging trends in digital technologies and scholarship; familiarity with standards-based work such as digital curation and metadata; excellent interpersonal, oral and written communication skills; ability to be flexible in a dynamic and changing environment; ability to work effectively with diverse faculty, students, and staff; ability to work independently and collaboratively; ability to prioritize and balance various unit needs; attention to detail. Typing Requirements (wpm):"

"Masters degree in Information or Library Science. Additional advanced degree and/or evidence of faculty collaboration; awareness of service management lifecycle concepts; experience working in a Digital Scholarship center or lab; experience with consulting-based service models; knowledge of copyright law and fair use; experience with grant writing; competence with web services skills (CSS, HTML5) or Drupal CMS; familiarity with languages such as Python, PHP or Java; experience working with data from XML files, relational databases, and APIs; experience with code and project management software such as GIT and JIRA."

"user experience, web services, outreach, reference or collection development."
