11/1/2011

"The Rutgers University Libraries seek an experienced, innovative, and service-oriented librarian to fill the new position of Digital Humanities Librarian in the John Cotton Dana Library on the Newark Campus of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey."

"ALA-accredited Master's degree in Library and Information Science. Degree in a humanities discipline, or strong humanities reference experience. Knowledge of the research and instructional needs of humanities faculty. Experience in an academic library environment, including reference and public services. Knowledge of metadata schema (MARC, MODS, METS, EAD, TEI, or Dublin Core) and library applications of emerging technologies. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Skill in collaboration and teamwork in an academic environment. Strong service orientation and understanding of user needs. Awareness of national issues and trends in academic librarianship and scholarly communication, and the ability and desire to meet tenure and promotion requirements. "

"Familiarity with literary and linguistic computing, including software for qualitative data analysis such as ATLAS.ti or NVivo, that will enhance the teaching and learning environment at Rutgers University. Experience with one or more of the following technologies: XML, XML Schema, XSLT, Dynamic HTML. Familiarity with data modeling or data visualization. Knowledge of database design and best practices in digitization."



"Reporting to the Assistant Chancellor and Director of the John Cotton Dana Library and under the direction of the Head of Public Services for the Dana Library, the Digital Humanities Librarian will provide support to faculty and students through the integration of digital resources, methodologies, technologies, and analytical tools with traditional resources and approaches to research and instruction in the humanities. The position includes faculty liaison responsibilities, particularly with the Department of Arts, Culture and Media, for research assistance, information literacy, and collection development. The Digital Humanities Librarian will advise teaching faculty on the creation and curation of digital objects in a variety of image, audio, and video formats, fostering collaboration between scholars, technologists, and information specialists and will offer leadership in identifying, understanding, evaluating, and implementing emerging technologies based on their pedagogical, presentation, and research uses in the fields of visual and performing arts as well as writing and journalism. Will also work with the other Dana librarians to identify and shepherd digital projects involving Dana and the Institute of Jazz Studies collections from inception to completion. Participates as a member of the Public Services team, a team of library faculty committed to providing firstrate public services to a diverse academic community. Responsibilities include reference and research assistance, including participation in virtual reference services, collaborating with faculty in the development of course information literacy sessions, and collection development of resources that support the humanities. This is a tenure track appointment. As a member of a university-wide faculty, the Digital Humanities Librarian is expected to routinely participate in system-wide initiatives, committees, and task forces, and to actively pursue and participate in research, publication, and in professional associations."
