UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA CRUZ UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, DIGITAL SCHOLARSHIP COMMONS DIGITAL HUMANITIES LIBRARIAN (Assistant or Associate Librarian, Potential Career) 
12/13/2016

The University Library at the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) invites applications for the position of Digital Humanities Librarian. The Digital Humanities Librarian will work in the Digital Scholarship Commons (DSC), a new and growing unit that supports innovative teaching and research on campus. We seek a collaborative, enthusiastic and creative librarian who is skilled at using technology to support interdisciplinary digital research projects in the humanities and across campus to serve as the first Digital Humanities Librarian. Reporting to the Director of the Digital Scholarship Commons, the Digital Humanities Librarian will be a self-directed, production-oriented individual who will work to increase and support the growing demand for digital humanities expertise on campus. Working with scholars in the Humanities, Social Sciences, and Arts divisions, the Digital Humanities Librarian will collaborate on established digital projects and inspire the development of new research projects. The successful candidate will be a change agent, partner, and resource for librarians as well as researchers with experience in one or more digital humanities/social sciences methodologies, including but not limited to, text analysis, data mining, data visualization, social network analysis, digital mapping and digital curation. The candidate will also have experience engaging in research that extends scholarship into the digital space through new modes of scholarly publishing (including Open Access) and publishing with online platforms. 

The selected candidate will be responsible for the following activities: • Identify and evaluate current and emerging digital tools and methodologies employed by scholars in the humanities, arts, and qualitative social sciences; • Provide expert consultation, support, and training on digital scholarship tools and techniques, including but not limited to, digital curation software, text analysis, data mining, mapping, social network analysis, and data visualization; • Serve as a strategist and resource person for the library on digital humanities and digital research; • Initiate, build, and nurture excellent relationships with a diverse university community to assist researchers in planning effective, innovative, and sustainable digital projects; • Develop research tools and lead presentations and workshops to facilitate user access to various tools and methods; • Plan and support events (e.g., speakers, symposium, reading groups) to engage and grow the digital humanities community on campus; • Provide reference support for the Digital Scholarship Commons • Coordinate with library colleagues to conduct outreach to and support research from Humanities, Social Sciences, and Arts divisions; • Collaborate with library colleagues to apply digital tools to library collections and develop best practices for digital projects; 

RANK: Assistant or Associate Librarian, Potential Career SALARY: Commensurate with qualifications and experience 

BASIC QUALIFICATIONS: • MLIS degree from an ALA-accredited program or an advanced graduate degree in digital humanities or related humanities discipline by start date • Demonstrated experience in the field of digital scholarship • Demonstrated experience with digital humanities research tools and approaches (e.g. text mining, data visualization, image analysis, digital mapping, 3D modeling, augmented reality) • Demonstrated experience working collaboratively and contributing to digital projects as an intellectual partner 

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: • A deep understanding of the research process and knowledge of the way that new technologies are affecting the production of scholarship in the humanities, arts and qualitative social sciences • Demonstrated initiative and proven ability to learn new technologies • A strong commitment to public service in the academic library environment • Commitment to and engagement with the digital humanities community • Experience leading workshops on digital scholarship or emerging technologies • Experience working with faculty and students to facilitate and/or support research projects • Familiarity with scholarly publishing issues, such as copyright and open access • Excellent interpersonal and written communications skills • Excellent organizational habits and ability to manage and prioritize diverse activities • Proven ability to be flexible and adaptable in a rapidly changing environment 

POSITION AVAILABLE: Immediately TO APPLY: Applications are accepted via the UCSC Academic Recruit online system, and must include a letter of application addressing how you meet the qualifications; curriculum vitae; three confidential letters of reference*; and a statement of contributions to diversity addressing past and/or potential contributions to diversity. Documents/materials must be submitted as PDF files. Apply at https://recruit.ucsc.edu/apply/JPF00419 Refer to Position #JPF00419-17T in all correspondence. *All letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. For any reference letter provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service, career center), direct the author to UCSC’s confidentiality statement at http://apo.ucsc.edu/confstm.htm. CLOSING DATE: Review of applications will begin on January 23, 2017. To ensure full consideration, applications should be complete [and letters of recommendation received] by this date. The position will remain open until filled, but not later than 6/30/2017. The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran status. UC Santa Cruz is committed to excellence through diversity and strives to establish a climate that welcomes, celebrates, and promotes respect for the contributions of all students and employees. Inquiries regarding the University’s equal employment opportunity policies may be directed to: Office for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at the University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064; (831) 459-2686. Under Federal law, the University of California may employ only individuals who are legally able to work in the United States as established by providing documents as specified in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. Certain UCSC positions funded by federal contracts or sub-contracts require the selected candidate to pass an E-Verify check. More information is available here or from the Academic Personnel Office (APO) at (831) 459-4300. UCSC is a smoke & tobacco-free campus. If you need accommodation due to a disability, please contact the Academic Personnel Office at apo@ucsc.edu (831) 459-4300. VISIT THE APO WEB SITE AT: http://apo.ucsc.edu 12/13/2016
