DIGITAL SCHOLARSHIP LIBRARIAN
UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON LIBRARIES
12/6/2016
Responsibilities:  Reporting to Head of Digital Research Services, the coordinator will partner with colleagues and units within the Libraries to advance digital research services and activities, including: providing services to publish, archive, and make accessible research data and scholarship; marketing UH Libraries’ digital scholarship expertise; and collaborating with Libraries’ stakeholders to enhance programming in the Digital Research Commons.
Primary duties include: coordinating digital scholarship activities within UH Libraries and serving as a resource for UH Libraries’ employees who are engaged in digital scholarship; collaborating with UH Libraries’ employees to provide digital scholarship instruction, training, and consultations; administering, expanding, and promoting digital repositories, including the Texas Data Repository and UH Libraries’ Institutional Repository, for disseminating and archiving research data and scholarship; collaborating with the UH Graduate School and UH colleges to archive and make accessible electronic theses and dissertations.
Librarians hold academic rank pursuant to the University of Houston Libraries’ Bylaws Document.  They are expected to develop a record of service, scholarship and professional involvement. The UH Libraries support the ongoing professional development of librarians and our goal is to recruit librarians committed to continuous learning. 
Qualifications:
Required -
Demonstrated knowledge of research and digital scholarship trends, principles, and tools, including familiarity with data mining and data visualization research tools
Experience in capturing, curating, or sharing the scholarly record and research outputs of a University
Demonstrated project management experience
American Library Association (ALA)-accredited Master’s degree
Excellent oral and written communication skills.
Ability to work in team-based environment, both within the Libraries and with faculty, staff, and students
Preferred -
Experience with administering digital scholarship platforms and online collaborative research environments (e.g. DSpace, Omeka, Getty Scholar’s Workspace, etc.)
Salary:  $58,000 to $60,000 expected hiring range, depending on qualifications.  Comprehensive benefits package; choice of retirement programs including TIAA-CREF; tax-deferred annuity program available; release time to take a class up to 3 hours/week; no state or local income tax.
Library Information:  The University of Houston Libraries’ Digital Research Commons will offer services, tools, and technologies to support collaborative scholarship and research across disciplines. By leveraging the expertise of the Libraries and cultivating partnerships with other campus research support units, the Commons will collaborate with faculty, researchers, staff, and advanced students from research conception to preservation, by providing data management, data documentation, research publishing and sharing, and data preservation services.
The UH Libraries are a member of the Association of Research Libraries, the Greater Western Library Alliance, HathiTrust, the Council on Library and Information Resources, the Digital Library Federation, and the Texas Digital Library.  The campus libraries provide access to over 3.1 million volumes.  The University Libraries’ total staff is 160, including 62 professionals.  Additional information about the University Libraries is available at: http://info.lib.uh.edu/.
The UH Libraries’ Strategic Plan 2017-21 focuses on quality collections, research productivity, student success, and transforming library spaces.  The complete document is available at:  http://info.lib.uh.edu/strategic-plan.  The Libraries’ Strategic Plan supports an ambitious set of goals adopted by the University and furthers the drive for flagship status:  http://www.uh.edu/about/mission/ .  We seek to recruit librarians who can relate their work to these strategies and understand their role in advancing these strategic imperatives.
General Information:  The University of Houston campus comprises 14 colleges offering close to 80 degree programs with an enrollment of over 40,000 students, 7,200 of whom are enrolled in graduate studies.  Reflecting the multicultural community of metropolitan Houston, UH is one of the most ethnically diverse research university campuses in the nation.  We welcome candidates whose experience has prepared them to contribute to our commitment to diversity and excellence. 
The University of Houston is a nationally prominent research university. Researchers are making new demands on available resources, seeking new funding sources, exploring new modes of scholarship, and generating and managing a vast array of research data. By aligning UH Libraries’ expertise and resources with these evolving research agenda, the Libraries can significantly impact the success of campus research, preserve and expand access to scholarship at UH, and document research excellence. 
Houston, the fourth largest city in the United States, offers all the cultural and recreational opportunities of a great city and is within easy reach of the Gulf of Mexico.  It enjoys a reasonable cost of living and was selected by Forbes as topping the list of America’s coolest cities: http://www.forbes.com/sites/morganbrennan/2012/07/26/houston-tops-our-list-of-americas-coolest-cities-to-live/ .
For additional information, including information about Houston's flourishing arts scene and entertainment offerings, please see: https://www.visithoustontexas.com/ .  For information about housing and living in Houston see: http://www.houston.org/living/index.htm.
Application Deadline:  Applications will be accepted until the position is filled.  Applications should be submitted at:  http://jobs.uh.edu/postings/33338.

