
Scholarly Engagement Librarian for Digital Scholarship
Howard-Tilton Memorial Library, Tulane University
12/5/2016
Howard-Tilton Memorial Library invites applications for the position of Coordinator for Scholarly Resources for the Humanities. The library seeks to build its professional staff by recruiting talented, energetic librarians interested in shaping the future of Tulane University and New Orleans.
Position Summary
The Scholarly Engagement Librarian for Digital Scholarship provides leadership for digital scholarship support across campus.  S/he identifies and implements digital tools and resources that advance the scholarly work of Tulane’s researchers at all levels.  Working with faculty, students, and information technology specialists, this position furthers successful use and integration of digital tools in research, teaching and learning.   S/he will be a partner and resource person for subject librarians and curators and will serve as a subject liaison providing research assistance, instruction in the use of library resources, and collection development and management in assigned subject(s) area.
Qualifications
Required: ALA-accredited MLS or equivalent at the time of hire; understanding of the research process and knowledge of the ways that new technologies are affecting the production of scholarship; experience with digital research tools and approaches (e.g. image analysis, text mining, data visualization, social network analysis); experience with library research tools and research consultation experience; experience in library instruction in an academic or research library; understanding of collection development and management, including financial responsibility, in an academic library; knowledge of the scholarly communications process (e.g., scholarly publishing, copyright, institutional or subject repositories); enthusiasm for creative and engaging outreach; strong interpersonal, communications, and organizational skills; demonstrated ability to work collaboratively with faculty, students, technology professionals, and library colleagues.
Preferred:  A second degree or scholarship in a related field; one year of previous instruction experience in an academic library; one year of collection development in an academic library.
Salary/Benefits
Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience. Librarians are academic appointees; librarians do not have tenure or faculty rank, but in other respects receive the benefits of faculty members; generous benefits including a choice of health plans, tuition waiver for self, and undergraduate tuition waiver for dependents.
Environment Tulane University is an AAU/Carnegie Research Institution and ranked by U.S. News and World Report among the top fifty national universities in the United States. The university is located in beautiful uptown New Orleans where it borders the St. Charles Avenue streetcar line and Audubon Park. Howard-Tilton Memorial Library is the University's main library with an ARL research collection of more than four million titles.
To Apply. To apply for this position please go to Tulane University Jobs IRC10813. To ensure full consideration, applicants must submit a letter of application, resume, and the names with full contact information of at least three professional references. Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until a suitable candidate is selected.
Tulane University is an AA/EO Employer. Women and minorities are encouraged to apply. Tulane is an EOE/M/F/Vet/Disabled employer.

