Research and Instruction Librarian/Digital Scholarship, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA
posted December 2, 2016 3:35 PM
Located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Lesley University is highly regarded for its graduate and undergraduate programs in education, the arts, and applied social sciences. Lesley fosters a highly creative environment in which innovative ideas thrive, theory is integrated with practice and its 7,000 students and 83,000 alumni are empowered to improve and enrich communities.
We offer a competitive benefits package that includes health, dental, life, and long-term-disability insurance. In addition, we offer generous amounts of vacation and holiday time, as well as a tuition remission policy that enables employees to expand their knowledge and skills.
Job Description:
The Research and Instruction Librarian/Digital Scholarship advances digital initiatives at Lesley University by providing consultation, technical support, and digital project management for faculty, librarians, staff, and students engaged in technology-rich scholarly projects and theses. This librarian provides expertise in developing university library digital collections, as well as providing research help online and in person, both in individual research consultations and at service points in the library. As a member of the Library's research and instruction staff, this librarian also participates in instructional programming, including teaching classes on campus and in Lesley's online programs.  General professional responsibilities include public service with evening, weekend, and holiday rotation as needed, and collaborative work with library staff and university faculty to meet the mission and goals of the university.
Requirements:
Master's degree in library and information science or equivalent graduate degree.
Professional experience supporting or participating in a substantial project related to digital content in an academic environment.
Teaching experience in higher education.
Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively and persuasively across scholarly and technology domains.
Excellent verbal, written and interpersonal communication skills.
Must be authorized to work in the United States; if you hold a visa, your visa status must allow you to work at Lesley University
Additional Information:
Salary Grade 25E: $50,917 - $60,591
BACKGROUND CHECKS ARE REQUIRED FOR ALL POSITIONS
Lesley University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer, and is committed to increasing the diversity of the university community and the curriculum. Candidates who believe they can contribute to this goal are encouraged to apply.

Application Instructions:
A cover letter, CV/resume, and contact information for three references must be included for full consideration.
Applications will be reviewed upon the establishment of an appropriate pool of candidates.
https://lesley.interviewexchange.com/jobofferdetails.jsp;jsessionid=1BB2E5F3055F698F7099EB003D2EDB3C?JOBID=78864&CNTRNO=9&TSTMP=1479919247233

