Digital Learning & Scholarship Team Leader, Case Western Reserve University

11-10-2016

The digital learning and scholarship (DLSTL) team leader is part of a service-driven team that supports creation and curation services in the Kelvin Smith Library (KSL). The DLSTL has responsibility for overseeing digital strategy, services and management. As part of scholarly communications, the DLSTL oversees library programs to foster sustainable models of scholarly communication, create new forms of digital scholarship and access, and provide guidance on copyright in teaching and research.

ESSENTIALS FUNCTIONS

Provide creative and innovative team leadership.
Provide leadership in the planning and provision of innovative digital library and multimedia services. Implement a vision of digital library services and administer the continuous redevelopment of library technology services, including the Freedman Center and Digital Case. Serve as a resource on local and national digital information policies and scholarly information practices.
Guide the CWRU community on digital content strategy and scholarship. This includes scholarly communication matters, and leading a dynamic program that engages faculty, students, and staff in initiatives to maximize the dissemination and impact of the university’s scholarship and knowledge resources.
Develop and manage the digital scholarship center. Manage services in KSL's technology-equipped learning spaces, including the Freedman Center for Digital Scholarship, and ensure that faculty, students and staff are aware of the capabilities of its technology-enabled spaces and services. Provide outreach to the campus community about digital information initiatives and content for Digital Case (the digital institutional repository) to store, preserve, and provide access to digital academic content in support of teaching, learning, and research at CWRU.
Oversee the library’s programs for digitization of content that is uniquely-held at CWRU.
Partner with other areas within the creation and curation division to evaluate current procedures, as well as teams in other library divisions. Make recommendations for developing, implementing, and documenting policies, procedures, and workflows. The team leader will work with the associate director for creation and curation to provide leadership in library-wide policy making and in the development and evaluation of services. Coordinate the library’s needs for general technology management (e.g., the integrated library system and the KSL digital repository system, Digital Case). Manage the staff and projects of the technology management group and works with this group and other departments within the library to define projects and set priorities.
Develop and oversee management (in conjunction with the university’s Information Technology Services) creative, high quality library services and infrastructure.
Plan and manage system wide initiates through participation on library, consortium and University task forces, team and committees.
Cultivate a work environment that promotes collaboration, accountability, high performance, staff engagement and diversity; sets standards of excellence that inspire and motivate.
Engage regularly with the user community.
Compile reports and maintain relevant statistics related to operations under this team.
NONESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS

Perform other duties as assigned.

CONTACTS

Department: Work closely with associate director on policy issues. Supervise team members to ensure excellent service. Collaborate with staff on all levels of the organization to support the provision of library services. Work with the associate provost and university librarian, associate directors, team leaders, and staff in all other units in the library as required.

University: Consult regularly with faculty and staff to ensure that client needs are considered and served, that services and planning are coordinated and those policies are applied and implemented consistently. Regularly interact with university Information Technology Services staff. Consult regularly with other campus librarians to coordinate information management decisions for the provision of library services.

External: Participate in local, regional and national organizations to maintain a network of information professionals which enhances our services and to stay abreast of trends and changes in the profession. Collaborate with colleagues in OhioLINK and other academic libraries. Work with vendors to support library technologies.

Students: Engage in daily communication with student assistants in the team to provide assistance and information resources to support their education and research needs.

SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITY

Supervise exempt staff and non-exempt staff student employees, and temporary full- or part-time workers.

QUALIFICATIONS

Experience: Team leaders must have sufficient experience and expertise in the work of the Team to serve as a supervisor, advisor and mentor to others. Appointment to this level assumes that all requirements for placement at the rank of at least Librarian 3 have been met and sustained, i.e., that the individual has demonstrated continued and outstanding growth in the profession, and is able assume leadership responsibilities and perform existing responsibilities at the highest level. Promotion to this level requires not only excellence of performance but also recognition of contributions at the state, national or international level. Leadership at this level can be managerial, communicative or intellectual in nature, and can manifest itself in any aspect of the profession.

Education: Master’s degree in library science or related discipline required. Advanced educational credentials (second Master’s degree, Ph.D.) preferred.

REQUIRED SKILLS

Job Performance. Consistently and regularly engages in leadership activities in library, scholarly and professional organizations that leads to an improvement in the professional functioning. Able to exercise the highest level of professional judgment and provide evidence of longstanding leadership. Contribute to a climate supportive of diversity, excellent scholarly work, and the advancement of the accomplishment of department, college or university goals. Demonstrable and career-long record of professional accomplishments. Regularly performs or administers highly complex or specialized duties. Able to prepare and explain to others new library policies. Demonstrate the ability to synthesize and adapt general management theories and practices. Anticipate and plan for library or functional area(s), including the design and evaluation of policies, services and programs.
Professional Knowledge, Abilities and Skills. Possess the knowledge, expertise and commitment to serve as a professional mentor to others. Considered to be an organizational leader (formal or informal). Demonstrable leader within the profession. Possess a high level of expertise in research or other professional endeavors within his/her specific area of work.
Professional Contributions. Demonstrate a sustained pattern of growth of professional development and achievement, with national recognition within the field of one’s work, as evidenced by: outstanding achievements in librarianship, research, and other professional and scholarly endeavors (including superior expertise); distinction and commitment at or beyond the Librarian 3 level in terms of scholarship, research, and/or creative endeavors; or, notable contributions to the advancement of librarianship and increasing service to the University, and community.
Professional Qualities: Evidence of sustained creativity and innovation in the profession, with significant contributions to the University and library. Evidence of continued successful leadership abilities.
Ability to handle the stress of performing multiple concurrent tasks with interruptions as needed.
Considerable knowledge of current issues and technology trends in academic libraries relevant to the position’s role, including experience articulating and overseeing effective implementation of functional specifications for software development projects using both traditional and agile methodologies.
Demonstrated ability to secure resources needed and to serve as a strong advocate to accomplish the mission of the library.
Demonstrated success in human resources management, including the ability to engage staff in improvement and change.
Proficient in project management to initiate, facilitate, conclude, and evaluate projects with efficiency and effectiveness.
Possesses the ability to provide leadership within the larger organization to ensure that the needs of the team are well understood and valued.
Effective at operations and project planning and execution.
Able to gathers statistics and perform analysis for in-house and external reporting using various methods and databases.
Able to serve as an effective advocate and partner with external organizations and groups.
Knowledge of the structure, organization, creation, management, dissemination, use, and curation of scholarship and information resources in all formats.
Able to evaluate critically and to assess existing and new library content and information services and systems.
Knowledge of relevant information technologies, and the ability to apply those technologies to improve the quality of library services.
An understanding of, and the ability to respond effectively to, changes in teaching, learning, and research.
A knowledge as to how scholarly information is created and disseminated, changes to scholarly information systems, an ability to support and enhance scholarly communication, and a background as to the implications of information policy (including laws regarding copyright and intellectual property).
Possess the basic skills to analyze complex problems, apply appropriate qualitative and quantitative research methods, create appropriate solutions, prioritize and organize work, and ensure the wise use of limited resources.
An ability to convey to clients the application of library services to improve teaching, research, and learning.
Comprehension of the concepts, principles, and techniques of information discovery and the provision of access to relevant and accurate recorded knowledge and information.
The ability to work collaboratively with others, including the ability to be persuasive and to manage conflicts of thought, and the ability to recognize the value of diverse perspectives.
The ability to provide consultation, mediation, or guidance in their use of recorded knowledge and information.
An understanding of current and emerging trends in research, learning theories, instructional methods, and service assessment and outcomes-measures.
Possess a general understanding of basic organizational principles, including strategic and tactical planning, budgeting, and human resource management.
WORKING CONDITIONS

General office/library environment.

APPLICATION PROCESS.   To apply for the position, please go to http://bit.ly/29I1ZSu Job ID 5554

Case Western Reserve University is committed to Equal Opportunity and Diversity.  Women, veterans, members of underrepresented minority groups, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply.